In this study, two series of donor-acceptor copolymers, based on bis(thienyl)dialkoxybenzene donor and benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BT) or thiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole (TzTz) acceptor units, were selected toward effective device scalability by roll-coating.
Judicious efforts on chemical engineering of the polymer (electron donor) materials, optimization of the solar cell architecture and the acquisition of additional fundamental insights on device operation have driven the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of this technology to levels approaching and even surpassing the 10% threshold [6,7,8].
On the other hand, with respect to large-scale device fabrication, poly{[2,5-bis(2-hexyldecyloxy)phenylene]-alt-[4,7-di(thiophen-2-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole]} P1 and poly{2,2′-[5,5′-(2,5-bis(2-hexyldecyloxy)-1,4-phenylene)dithiophene]-alt-[2,5-bis(4-hexylthiophen-2-yl)thiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole]} P2 (Figure 1) have been identified as suitable donor polymers for RC-processed organic photovoltaics (OPV) [12,14].
The moderate efficiency of the PSCs based on the P2-(12) polymer, containing the bis(thienyl)di(2-hexyldecyloxy)benzene donor part [12], could be improved using a hexyl side chain on the dithienylthiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole group (instead of dodecyl) [15].
Four new donor-acceptor-type low bandgap copolymers were successfully synthesized by manipulation of the side chains of two copolymers (P1 and P2) based on benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BT) and thiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole (TzTz) acceptor units, respectively.
As such, partial exchange (5% or 10%) of the solubilizing 2-hexyldecyloxy side chains on the bis(thienyl)dialkoxybenzene donor parts by EtPh substituents was successfully performed.
In recent years, bulk heterojunction (BHJ) polymer solar cells (PSCs) composed of conjugated polymers (as the electron donor, D) and fullerene derivatives (as the electron acceptor, A) with interpenetrating networks have attracted a myriad of attention for both academic and industrial sectors due to their premium features of flexibility, fabrication simplicity, low manufacturing costs, short energy payback time, and low environmental impact123.
Since the pioneer works in OPVs,16, 17, 18 rapidly increasing PCEs of OSCs are benefited from the developments of new donor/acceptor materials in the active layer and from the innovations of the device structure and geometry.19, 20, 21, 22 For example, high PCEs of 9–10% for single‐junction OSCs are achieved by combining [6,6]‐phenyl‐C71‐butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as an acceptor with a low‐bandgap polymer, poly({4,8‐bis[(2‐ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl}{3‐fluoro‐2‐[(2‐ethylhexyl)carbonyl] thieno[3,4‐b]thiophenediyl}) (PTB7) or its derivative PTB7‐Th (poly[4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐co‐3‐fluorothieno[3,4‐b]thiophene‐2‐carboxylate]) as a donor in the active layer.23, 24, 25, 26, 27 Recently, Yan and co‐workers reported a PCE of 10.8% from inverted single‐junction cells based on a new polymer:fullerene (PffBT4T‐2OD:PC71BM) system by controlling the aggregation and morphology of the active layer.28 When two photoactive materials with complementary absorption spectra are used to improve light harvesting of tandem OSCs, PCEs over 11% for both polymer and small molecule solar cells have been achieved.9, 29, 30, 31
When the active layer of a conventional OSC is under light irradiation, the photogenerated excitons diffuse towards the donor/acceptor interface and separate into holes and electrons in the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor, and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor (Figure 1b), respectively.
Therefore, the energy level structure at electrode interfaces plays an essential role, where an ideal interface needs good Ohmic contact with minimum resistance and high charge selectivity to prevent carriers from reaching the opposite electrodes.21 Interfacial materials with adequate WFs to match the energetic levels of donor and acceptor materials are thus desired to insert between the active layer and electrodes, which can enhance the collection efficiencies of holes and electrons on the anode and cathode, respectively.
It is known that the inevitable potential loss due to the energy level offset between the donor and acceptor materials in OSCs makes the electrode contacts crucial parameters to derive the net potential out of the BHJs.34 Therefore, it is required for OPV devices to form good Ohmic contacts at the interfaces between the active layer and electrodes for efficient charge extraction and transportation.
For both conventional and inverted OSCs, CILs require low WFs to match with LUMO levels of acceptor materials for charge extraction, good electron‐transporting/hole‐blocking properties for charge‐transportation, and nice compatibility between cathodes and active layers for reducing interface defects and energy losses.
As an inorganic n‐type semiconductor, ZnO is one of the best choices in metal oxide CIL materials due to its features such as low cost, easy synthesis, non‐toxicity, high stability, and unique optical/electronic properties.59 Generally, ZnO materials have a low WF of ≈4.30 eV, which offers a descent energy level to reduce WF of ITO or metal electrodes, and to match with LUMO levels of various fullerene‐based acceptors such as [6,6]‐phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), PC71BM, and indene‐C60 bis‐adduct (ICBA), etc.
Using the sol–gel TiOx CIL, increased PCEs of 4.65% and 5.5% were achieved for inverted OSCs based on the P3HT and PCDTBT system, respectively.79, 81 The sol–gel TiOx CILs can also be used to establish stable inverted devices with only 3.67% reduction in PCE over 2160 h of storage.82 Recently, a low‐temperature solution derived TiOx CIL was developed to greatly enhance the efficiency and stability of inverted OSCs, where the normalized PCE could retain over 90% after 120 days storage in air.27 Control over the film thickness and morphology of TiOx CILs by a facile electro‐deposition was also used to enhance and optimize device performance of inverted OSCs.83 In addition, TiO2 NPs were similarly designed as effective CILs to reduce WF of ITO and facilitate electron‐collection, where high PCEs up to 8.79% were achieved for the inverted OSCs with a polymer donor poly{[4,8‐bis‐(2‐ethylhexyl‐thiophene‐5‐yl)‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl]‐alt‐[2‐(2′‐ethyl‐hexanoyl)‐thieno[3,4‐b]thiophen‐4,6‐diyl]} (PBDTTT‐C‐T) in the BHJ.84
These fixed characters indicate the inflexibility in general applications for OSCs due to the variable energy levels of donor/acceptor materials.
recently reported the use of BCP as an electron‐injection and exciton‐blocking CIL to achieve high performance fullerene‐free OSCs, which were fabricated by sequentially depositing two acceptor layers of boron subnaphthalocyanine chloride (SubNc) and boronsubphthalocyanine chloride (SubPc) on top of an α‐sexithiophene (α‐6T) donor layer.135 The energy‐relay cascade in the conventional device enabled an efficient two‐step exciton dissociation process, leading to a record high PCE of 8.4% for the thermally deposited single‐junction OSCs.
A thin Ba CIL was inserted between the Al and organic active layer to improve PCEs of conventional OSCs based on a small molecule donor, 7,7′‐(4,4‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)‐4H‐silolo[3,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl)bis(6‐fluoro‐4‐(5′‐hexyl‐[2,2′‐bithiophen]‐5‐yl)benzo[c][1,2,5] thiadiazole) (p‐DTS(FBTTh2)2) and the PC71BM acceptor.142 The Ba CIL can prevent trap assisted Shockley‐Read‐Hall recombination at the interface, and with different Ba thicknesses the recombination shifted from monomolecular to bimolecular.
When adopting a low‐bandgap polymer, PBDTBDD (poly(((4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl)bis(trimethyl))‐co‐(5,7‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)benzo[1,2‐c:4,5‐c′]dithiophene‐4,8‐dione))), as the donor and PCBM as the acceptor, a best PCE of 9.23% was achieved for the conventional OSCs with ZrAcac CILs, which was much higher than that of the devices with Al (5.72%) and traditional Ca/Al (7.34%) as cathodes.
Among the carbon‐based CILs, fullerene‐derived materials have unique virtues of being structurally similar to the fullerene acceptors, which can smoothly bridge electrons extracting/transporting from the fullerene acceptor to the cathode.118, 159, 160 A solution‐processable amine group functionalized fullerene derivative, DMAPA‐C60, was designed as a versatile CIL for enhancing the performance of different polymer/fullerene devices.
Meanwhile, combining ideal energy levels, and excellent electron‐transporting ability, hydrophilic fullerene derivatives can be a promising class of CIL materials for efficient inverted OSCs.162, 163, 164 For example, C60‐SB has dual functionalities of acting as a thickness insensitive CIL and as an electron acceptor in inverted OSCs.164 Average PCEs as high as 9.08% (a maximum PCE of 9.23%) were obtained for the inverted PTB7‐Th:PC71BM‐based OSCs with a ≈40 nm C60‐SB CIL.
While the electron‐transporting CILs have low WFs for electron collection, the hole‐transporting materials as AILs should have high WFs to match the HOMO levels of the donor materials in the active layer to facilitate hole‐extraction.
At the same time, the proper WF of PEDOT:PSS (≈5.1 eV) matches well with many polymer donors to form good Ohmic contact at the anode/active layer interface.21 However, the acidic and moisture sensitive nature of PEDOT:PSS significantly influences the stability of devices based on it.
NiOx is another transition metal oxide which has been investigated as the AIL for OSCs.237 With a conduction band higher than the LUMO of organic donors and acceptors, NiOx is effective in blocking electrons and its high WF promotes the Ohmic contact at the interface between the BHJ and the anode.
To improve the conductivity of GO, various approaches on post‐oxidation reduction have been made to remove the oxygen‐containing groups for recovering the conjugated structure of the basal plane.256, 257 Note that GO has a WF of ≈4.7 eV, which is much lower than the HOMO of organic donors and thus significantly influences the Ohmic contact of the active layer and the anode.
Thus, the quasi‐Fermi energy level of donor in a subcell can be aligned with the quasi‐Fermi energy level of acceptor in the other, leading to a downward shift of the vacuum level, as reflected in the energy level diagram (Figure  14 a).
Therefore, novel high performance donor/acceptor active layer materials with aborption extended to the near‐IR region are of great importance in order to enrich the choice of materials used for multi‐junction OSCs.
This is of particular importance in photovoltaic semiconductor devices, such as solar cells and photodetectors, where the performance is governed by the bandgap energy of the semiconductor in use and can be strongly influenced by energy states within the bandgap.13 In the case of organic donor/acceptor blend photovoltaic devices, subgap absorption plays a pivotal role in defining photovoltage losses and, ultimately, the losses in the power conversion efficiency, while the spectral line shape of the absorption coefficient has been widely used to infer information about the static disorder,15 Urbach energy tail states,16−18 CT states,10,19−23 and trap states.24−26
PDS has been used to detect defects in inorganic semiconductors and CT states in organic donor/acceptor blend semiconductors.1,10,22,29
Figure 2 demonstrates the contributions of singlet excitons, CT states, and midgap trap states in the subgap absorption of a typical organic photovoltaic device with a fullerene-based acceptor, using a PCDTBT:PC70BM blend as a model system.
(a) Schematic energy level diagram at the donor–acceptor interface including exciton (Eex), CT (ECT), and midgap trap (Et) states.
Hence, Eex = min(ED, EA), where ED and EA is the corresponding exciton energy of the donor and acceptor component, respectively.
CT state absorption is believed to be induced by intermolecular donor–acceptor transitions.
Depending on the energy offset between the donor and the acceptor, the energy of the CT states varies, and their absorption line shape appears at different energies.
As ECT increases, and the energy offset between CT states and the singlet excitons of the component with the smaller energy gap (donor or acceptor) decreases, the absorption feature of the CT states eventually disappears, becoming overshadowed by the excitonic feature.
CT state parametrization based on the classical Marcus model (eq 6) of subgap absorption spectra has played a crucial role in our current understanding of organic donor/acceptor blends.
In these studies, electroluminescence (EL) measurements are mainly employed since, contrary to absorption, the EL spectra of the donor/acceptor blends are dominated by the CT state emission.
In this process a free hole is generated as the result of an optical excitation and subsequent charge transfer of an electron from the highest occupied molecular orbital of the donor (EHOMO,D) to a trap state, while a free electron is generated following the optical excitation of a trapped electron to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital of the acceptor (ELUMO,A), thus contributing to the photocurrent.
(a) Schematic of charge generation (upward arrows) and recombination (downward arrows) processes at the donor–acceptor interface including midgap trap states.
As a result, we generally expect J0RAD ∝ exp(−ECT/kT) and VOCRAD ∝ ECT/q (under one sun illumination) in high-offset donor–acceptor systems,20 consistent with a large body of experimental evidence from fullerene-based acceptor BHJs.52,65,74−79
We then more specifically discussed the importance of the subgap absorption in organic semiconductor donor/acceptor blends.
Through the simulation work, dependencies of device performance on the tandem structures were clarified by tuning the thickness, donor/acceptor weight ratio as well as the donor–acceptor distribution in both active layers of the two sub-cells.
Furthermore, existing evidence suggests that the distribution of donor/acceptor (D/A) in the active layer is critical in determining the final device performance [1,6].
What also must be considered is that the weight ratio between donor and acceptor is another important factor impacting the PCE of tandem polymer solar cells [12].
In the simulated annealing method, the Ising model is adopted to generate the morphology with desired donor–acceptor distribution.
Then, the distribution of donor and acceptor materials in the blend was quantized using the average domain size (a) defined in [27].
Since excitons can only dissociate into electrons and holes at the interface between donor and acceptor, EDE is expected to decrease with domain size because the D/A interface area reduces as domain size increases.
The effect of different alkyl functionalities on the donor moiety upon the optical and photovoltaics parameters have been investigated in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) using a 10-μm TiO2 active layer.
Specifications tableValue of the data•The UV–Vis spectroscopy of the sensitizers can be useful to evaluate the effect of different functionalization on the donor moiety of a sensitizer in DSSCs.•The photovoltaic performances of DSSCs sensitized with this class of di-branched dyes can be compared with those previously presented in Ref.
[1].•The IPCE plot may be useful to other researches to compare the efficiency of other donor-acceptor linear or di-branched dyes able to convert light to electricity in a specific range of wavelengths.
The UV–Vis spectroscopy of the sensitizers can be useful to evaluate the effect of different functionalization on the donor moiety of a sensitizer in DSSCs.
The IPCE plot may be useful to other researches to compare the efficiency of other donor-acceptor linear or di-branched dyes able to convert light to electricity in a specific range of wavelengths.
S2,† which acts as donor-type surface states.
Concomitantly, as seen from the SECO region, the work function decreased from 4.94 eV to 4.55 eV as a result of downward band bending induced by the Pb0-related donor-type surface states.
Such metallic Pb0, although at a very low density (Pb0/Pb2+ of 4.2%), is expected to act as donor-type surface state.
However, in terms of the electron acceptors, the most common molecular design strategy of halogenation usually results in down-shifted molecular energy levels, thereby leading to decreased open-circuit voltages in the devices.
Herein, we report a chlorinated non-fullerene acceptor, which exhibits an extended optical absorption and meanwhile displays a higher voltage than its fluorinated counterpart in the devices.
In the last few years, the development of low bandgap non-fullerene small molecular acceptors with acceptor–donor–acceptor structures has achieved great success29–33.
Halogenation of electron-accepting units can enhance the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) effects and reduce the bandgaps of non-fullerene small molecular acceptors, which has been demonstrated to be one of the most effective molecular design strategies34–36.
To date, most of the top-performing acceptors, such as IT-4F36, IEICO-4F37, and BT-CIC13, contain fluorine or chlorine atoms.
However, one of the biggest problems of chlorinated acceptors is that they usually exhibit downshifted lowest unoccupied molecular orbit (LUMO) levels, leading to reduced open-circuit voltages (VOCs) in the resulting OPV cells.
These results pose a large challenge for broadening the optical absorption of chlorinated acceptors while maintaining high VOCs in the OPV cells.
In this work, we report a chlorinated low bandgap acceptor BTP-4Cl by replacing the halogen atoms of the fluorinated non-fullerene acceptor Y6 (herein named BTP-4F).
The chlorinated acceptor BTP-4Cl shows a redshift of ca.
In the OPV cells fabricated using the same polymer donor PBDB-TF, however, the BTP-4Cl-based device yields an even higher VOC of 0.867 V compared with that of the BTP-4F-based device (0.834 V).
reported a fluorinated non-fullerene small molecular acceptor Y6 and obtained an outstanding photovoltaic performance21, which motivates us to explore the applications of its chlorinated derivative in OPV cells.
Figure 1a shows the molecular structures of the fluorine-containing and chlorine-containing non-fullerene acceptors and the used polymer donor PBDB-TF.
a Chemical structure of the BTP-4X acceptors and the polymer donor PBDB-TF.
b Molecular dipoles in the optimized molecular models for the BTP-4X acceptors.
d Normalized UV–vis absorption spectra of the donor and acceptors as thin films.
a Chemical structure of the BTP-4X acceptors and the polymer donor PBDB-TF.
b Molecular dipoles in the optimized molecular models for the BTP-4X acceptors.
d Normalized UV–vis absorption spectra of the donor and acceptors as thin films.
2, the optimized molecular geometries and wavefunction distributions of the frontier orbitals including the highest occupied molecular orbits (HOMOs) and LUMOs show little difference between the two acceptors.
Unlike the acceptors with centrosymmetric features (e.g.
Although it is hard to relate the dipole properties to the photovoltaic performance of OPV materials, there are studies that suggest large dipoles moments are beneficial for charge separation in donor:acceptor blends43 and are helpful for achieving fill factors (FFs) in the devices44.
The reduced attractive energy in BTP-4Cl can be ascribed to the more delocalization of the charge density and may be beneficial for charge transfer in the donor:acceptor combinations with low-energy offsets.
The molecular packing properties of the acceptors were investigated by grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS).
To study the photovoltaic performance of BTP-4X, we fabricated OPV cells with an inverted configuration of indium tin oxide (ITO)/ZnO nanoparticles/PBDB-TF:BTP-4X/MoO3/Al, where PBDB-TF was selected as the electron donor material.
First, we measured the photoluminescence (PL) spectra of the neat and blend films to investigate the photo-induced charge transfer in the donor:acceptor blend films.
To obtain the best device performance, we carefully optimized the fabrication conditions, including the donor:acceptor ratio, additive, and thermal annealing temperature (Supplementary Table 1).
For the device based on BTP-4Cl as the acceptor, the VOC unexpectedly increase to 0.867 V, which is 33 mV higher than that of the BTP-4F-based device.
Overall, an outstanding PCE of 16.5% is recorded for the PBDB-TF:BTP-4Cl-based device, which represents the top result for single-junction OPV cells and is much higher than the results obtained by non-halogenated45 and fluorinated acceptors21.
By comparison, the BTP-4Cl-containing device has a broader photo-response range by approximately 15 nm than the device based on BTP-4F as the acceptor, which should be ascribed to the redshift of the optical absorption of BTP-4Cl.
The acceptors maintained their previous orientations from the blended films after blending the polymer donor PBDB-TF.
4a, the blend films of PBDB-TF:BTP-4X have very similar sensitive-EQE spectra to the neat acceptors (Supplementary Fig. 13).
In addition, the measured electroluminescence (EL) spectra of the blend films are also quite similar to the corresponding neat acceptors without additional emission peaks from the charge-transfer states.
This phenomenon is commonly observed in highly efficient donor:acceptor systems with low-energy offsets and is beneficial for reducing ΔE2.
The higher EQEEL of BTP-4Cl-containing combinations is also observed in other systems when blending different polymer donors (Supplementary Fig.
To summarize, we report a chlorinated non-fullerene acceptor BTP-4Cl and achieve record PCEs of 16.5% and 15.3% for OPV cells with 0.09 and 1 cm2 active areas, respectively.
The polymer donor PBDB-TF and the acceptor BTP-4F (Y6) were synthesized via referencing the reported literatures21,56,57.
The optimized donor:acceptor ratio is 1:1 for PBDB-TF:BTP-4Cl.
We show that, when 2,6-dithienylanthracene and a fullerene derivative PC71BM are used as donor and acceptor, respectively, the best p-i-n OPV affords a higher photovoltaic efficiency than the corresponding p-n device by 24% and bulk-heterojunction device by 67%.
The photoprecursor approach is also applied to preparation of three-component p-i-n films containing another donor 2,6-bis(5′-(2-ethylhexyl)-(2,2′-bithiophen)-5-yl)anthracene in the i-layer to provide a nearly doubled efficiency as compared to the original two-component p-i-n system.
The optimal weight ratio between donor and acceptor in the mixed solution was experimentally determined to be 2:1 (Supplementary Table S1 and Figure S11) which was employed for deposition of i-layers throughout this study.
Here, the Voc in an OPV generally correlates to the energy difference between the LUMO of accepter and the HOMO of donor minus the exciton binding energy303132.
This low IQE in device A is assumed to originate from the planar-junction structure, which is disadvantageous for charge photogeneration because of the limited donor–acceptor (D–A) interface area and the short exciton diffusion length in organic films (ca.
The morphology of the EH-DBTA:PC71BM blend film should have led to a considerable increase in donor–acceptor heterojunction area within the i-layer, thereby enhancing carrier generation in comparison with the case of DTA:PC71BM.
AbstractPM6 is a widely used D–A copolymer donor in the polymer solar cells (PSCs).
The results indicate that side chain position on the thiophene π‐bridges influence the device performance of the terpolymer donors, and PMT‐CT‐10 is a high efficiency polymer donor for the PSCs.Two PM6‐based D–A1–D–A2 type terpolymers PMT‐FT‐10 and PMT‐CT‐10 are synthesized by introducing 10% thiazolothiazole as the second electron‐accepting (A2) units connecting with thiophene π‐bridges attaching alkyl substituent toward the A2 unit (PMT‐CT‐10) or toward D‐unit (PMT‐FT‐10).
The polymer solar cells with PMT‐CT‐10 as donor and Y6 as acceptor show the highest power conversion efficiency of 18.21%.
Polymer solar cells (PSCs) with a p‐type conjugated polymer as electron donor and an n‐type organic semiconductor as electron acceptor, have become a promising technology for converting sunlight to electricity due to their unique properties of simple device structure, low‐cost solution processing, light‐weight, and flexibility.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 ,  9 ,  10 ,  11  ] In the last decade, the PSCs have made tremendous progress, mainly benefited from the development of non‐fullerene small molecular acceptors (SMAs).
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of the PSCs has achieved over 18% recently, with Y6 or its derivatives as acceptor and wide bandgap p‐type conjugated polymer as donor.
[  19 ,  20 ,  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  24  ] Among the high performance polymer donors, PM6[  25  ] is a representative and widely used polymer donor for the PSCs with Y6 or its derivatives as acceptors.
By careful controlling the proportion of the third component, the optimized terpolymers could effectively promote PCEs of the PSCs by synergistically improving light absorption, tuning energy levels, and controlling morphology and crystallinity of the polymer donors.
And a higher PCE of 16.3% was obtained for the PSCs with PFBCNT20 as donor.
[  40  ] synthesized a series of PM6‐based D–A1–D–A2 type terpolymers donor polymers with difluorobenzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole, p‐difluorobenzene, tetrafluorobenzene, or thiazolo[5,4‐d]thiazole as A2 unit, and the PCEs of the PSCs with the terpolymers as donor reached 16–17.1%.
Eventually, the PMT‐CT‐10‐based PSC with Y6 as acceptor achieves excellent PCE of 18.21%, with an open‐circuit voltage (V oc) of 0.832 V, an outstanding short‐circuit current density (J sc) of 28.12 mA cm−2, and a higher fill factor (FF) of 77.9%, which is one of the highest PCE among the terpolymer‐based PSCs.
a) Chemical structures of polymer donors and Y6 acceptor.
b) Normalized absorption spectra of the neat polymer donors and Y6 films.
c) Cyclic voltammograms of polymer donors and Y6.
d) Schematic energy level diagram of the polymer donors and Y6 acceptor.
The detailed synthetic routes and synthetic processes of the monomers TTz‐FT‐Br and TTz‐CT‐Br and the two polymer donors PMT‐FT‐10 and PMT‐CT‐10 are shown in Scheme S1a,b, Supporting Information.
At room temperature, the resulting polymer donors show good solubility in common organic solvents, such as chloroform and chlorobenzene.
The number‐average molecular weights (M n) of polymer donors were measured by high‐temperature gel permeation chromatography with 1,3,5‐trichlorobenzene as the eluent.
Meanwhile, all the three polymer donors demonstrate good thermal stability with 5% weight loss at temperature about 415 °C by thermogravimetric analysis (Figure S2a, Supporting Information).
Molecular weights, optical properties, and electronic energy levels of polymer donors
Figure 1b shows the normalized UV–vis absorption spectra of the three polymer donors and Y6 films, and Figure S2b, Supporting Information, displays the normalized UV–vis absorption spectra of the polymer donors in diluted chloroform solution.
In the solution state, the three polymer donors display almost identical absorption profiles with similar maximum absorption peaks at 615 nm and a shoulder peak at about 578 nm, while the shoulder peak of the two terpolymers is enhanced than PM6, indicating the stronger interchain interactions for the two terpolymers.
Furthermore, the normalized absorption profiles of blend films of the three polymer donors and Y6 acceptor exhibit similar absorption profiles (see Figure S2d, Supporting Information).
Electrochemical cyclic voltammetry (CV) was employed to estimate the electronic energy levels of the polymer donors, and the cyclic voltammograms (CV curves) are shown in Figure 1c.
Grazing incident wide‐angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) measurement was conducted on the neat polymer donors to investigate their molecular packing properties, and all the original polymer films were prepared under identical conditions.
In addition, in comparison with the d‐spacing of 3.98Å of PM6, the two terpolymers of PMT‐FT‐10 and PMT‐CT‐10 possess smaller d‐spacing values of their π–π stacking, indicating that the ternary random copolymerization is an effective strategy for improving the π–π stacking aggregation of the polymer donors.
To investigate the effect of the alkyl substitution position of the thiophene π‐bridges on the photovoltaic performance of the terpolymers, PSCs were fabricated with conventional device architecture of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Polymer donors:Y6/PNDIT‐F3N[  42  ]/Ag.
[  43  ] Meanwhile, the photovoltaic properties of the other terpolymers PMT‐CT‐20, PMT‐CT‐30, and PMT‐CT‐100 with 20%, 30%, and 100% proportion of TTz‐CT units, respectively, were studied by using Y6 as acceptor under the optimized device fabrication conditions.
The PMT‐CT‐10‐based PSC shows the highest PCE of 18.21% with a high J sc of 28.12 mA cm−2 and a higher FF of 77.9% while a slightly lower V oc of 0.832 V due to the slightly upshifted HOMO energy levels of the PMT‐CT‐10 donor, in comparison with that of the PMT‐FT‐10‐based device.
To deeply probe the effect of alkyl substitution position of the thiophene π‐bridges on the charge transport properties of the terpolymers, the electron mobility (µ e) and hole mobility (µ h) of the polymer donor films and their blend films with Y6 acceptor were measured by space‐charge‐limited‐current method, with the device structures of ITO/ZnO/blend films/PNDIT‐F3N/Ag for electron mobility measurement and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/neat films or blend films/MoO3/Ag for hole mobility measurement.
After blending with Y6 acceptor, the PMT‐CT‐10‐based blend film also displays the highest µ h of 8.06 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 and µ e of 9.16 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 with more balanced electron and hole mobilities (µ e/µ h) of 1.14.
The PMT‐FT‐10‐based blend film with Y6 acceptor shows slightly lower µ h (6.58 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1) and µ e (7.94 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1) with a µ e/µ h value of 1.21, which are also higher than those of the PM6:Y6 blend (µ h = 2.16 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1, µ e = 6.37 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 with an unbalanced µ e/µ h of 2.93).
The results indicate that PMT‐CT‐10‐based blend film with Y6 acceptor possesses the highest and the balanced hole and electron mobilities, which should be beneficial to the higher FF of the PMT‐CT‐10‐based PSCs.
As shown in Figure S7, Supporting Information, all neat terpolymer films displayed strong PL emissions in the range of 600–≈800 nm when excited at 590 nm, but the PL emissions of the terpolymer donors were almost completely quenched in the blend films with Y6 acceptor.
[  45  ] First, we measured the transient absorption spectra of the PMT‐CT‐10:Y6 blend by selectively photoexciting the Y6 acceptor in the blend film with pump wavelength at 830 nm.
Another strong GSB peak centered at 636 nm appears almost simultaneously, which is ascribed to the GSB of polymer donor since it matches the absorption of the PMT‐CT‐10 film.
The intensity of donor GSB signal continued to increase to its maximum in ≈30 ps, and then it started to decrease slowly.
d) Kinetic traces of the terpolymer donors GSB probing at 636 nm for the two blend films.
In conclusion, two PM6‐based D–A1–D–A2‐type terpolymers were designed and synthesized by introducing 10% TTz as the A2 units connecting with thiophene π‐bridges attaching alkyl substituent toward the A2 unit (PMT‐CT‐10) or toward D‐unit (PMT‐FT‐10), for the application as donor in PSCs.
And the blend films of PMT‐CT‐10 with acceptor Y6 show suitable D/A interpenetrating network, enhanced π–π stacking and face‐on orientation, higher and balanced hole and electron mobilities, and higher excitons dissociation and less charge recombination efficiencies, which leads to the enhanced J sc and higher FF in the PMT‐CT‐10:Y6‐based PSCs.
The results indicate that the alkyl substitution position plays an important role in tuning the aggregation and interchain interaction of the polymer donors, and PMT‐CT‐10 is a high performance polymer donor for the Y6‐based PSCs.
The detailed synthesis process and characterization of polymer donors, the device fabrication, and characterization can be found in the Supporting Information.
We designed and synthesized an asymmetric non-fullerene small molecule acceptor (NF-SMA) IDT-TNIC with an A–D–π–A structure, based on an indacenodithiophene (IDT) central core, with a unidirectional non-fused alkylthio-thiophene (T) π-bridge, and 2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile (NIC) extended terminal groups.
Recently, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic solar cells (OSCs) based on non-fullerene (NF) acceptors has exceeded 19%, which leaves researchers full of confidence and expectation for its commercial application [1,2,3,4,5].
The rate at which the PCE records continue to be broken is largely due to the rapid development of the symmetrical acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A)-type small molecule acceptors (SMAs) [8,9,10,11,12], which usually consists of an electron-donating unit as the central core, two strong electron-withdrawing units as the terminal groups, and alkyl- or aryl- as side chain groups.
Dipole moments, especially the interfacial dipole moment (donor/acceptor (D/A) interface) and the internal dipole moment of the materials, has a great influence on the charge separation.
A similar situation has been confirmed in fullerene acceptor [22] and NF-SMAs materials.
PBDB-T with complementary absorption and well-matched energy levels with IDT-TNIC was used as the donor material.
Contact angle (CA) measurements were carried out to further study the miscibility and surface tension (γ) of donor and acceptor (as shown in Figure S9).
When PBDB-T was used as the donor material, the OSCs based on PBDB-T:IDT-TNIC blend film exhibits an energetic PCE of 11.32% with a high Voc of 0.87 V, high Jsc of 19.85 mA cm−2, and a lower energy loss of 0.57 eV.
Organic photovoltaic devices are able to deliver photocurrents thanks to the generation of electrical fields when light is absorbed in their photoactive layers, composed of a donor, and an acceptor semiconducting material.
The donor material donates electrons transporting holes while the acceptor material withdraws electrons and further transports them (Polino et al., 2015).
Abdullaeva and co-workers, with the intent to create organic-based artificial photoreceptors, developed a photoactive layer consisting of an anilino-squaraine donor blended with a fullerene acceptor as support for N2A cells (neuronal model cell line) growth.
 Donor–π-bridge–donor type oligomers (D–π–D) have been studied intensively as active materials for organic optoelectronic devices.Donor–π-bridge–donor type oligomers (D–π–D) have been studied intensively as active materials for organic optoelectronic devices.
Single-crystal measurements and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) studies indicate that these coplanar donor–π–donor type HTMs could be promising alternatives to state-of-the-art spiro-OMeTAD, due to the multiple intermolecular short contacts as charge transporting channels and efficient charge extraction properties from the perovskite layer.
Herein, we report the facile synthesis and characterization of three new donor–π–donor type HTMs for PSCs, denoted as PEH-3, PEH-8 and PEH-9, by incorporating simple thiophene or thienothiophene with an ethylene unit as the π-bridge (Fig.
The three new HTMs show two reversible redox processes in the low potential region at around 0.15 V and 0.25 V, respectively, indicating that the two electrons are removed successively from the two donor triphenyl amine (TPA) units and a higher potential is needed to transform HTM+˙ into HTM2+˙.
All molecules have a similar orbital density due to their similar donor–π–donor structure.
We have synthesized three new donor–π–donor type hole transporting materials denoted as PEH-3, PEH-8 and PEH-9, incorporating thiophene or thienothiophene with two electron-rich TPA units, via facile synthesis for perovskite solar cells.
Single-crystal measurements and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) revealed that the donor–π-bridge–donor structure with a planar configuration could be a promising strategy to design small molecule HTMs, due to the multiple intermolecular short contacts acting as charge transporting channels and efficient charge extraction properties from the perovskite layer.
Studies on molecular engineering of donor–π–donor type HTMs that exhibit further increased charge transporting channels for highly efficient PSCs are now in progress.
As a result of impressive efforts in developing novel low bandgap polymer donor materials, optimizing the photoactive layer morphology, interface engineering, and novel light-trapping structures [7,8,9,10,11,12], single-junction organic solar cells are now approaching the practical efficiency limit of η ≈ 11%–12% [13].
The OPVs based on the conventional architecture were composed of a layer stack i.e., a bottom cathode electrode, an electron transport layer (ETL), a charge donor-acceptor layer (photoactive layer), a hole transport layer (HTL), and a top anode electrode.
The chosen BHJ material was a blend of polymer to fullerene, polymer-based poly-3-hexyl thiophene (P3HT) conjugated polymers donor-blended with an organic fullerene acceptor, (6,6)-phenyl-C60-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM).
The deposition of the photoactive layer was performed using a variety of materials such as the conjugated polymer, donor material poly-3-hexyl thiophene (P3HT), or poly (N-9′-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′benzothiadiazole)) (PCDTBT).
Furthermore, fullerene derivatives such as acceptor material phenyl-C60-butyric acid methyl ester (PC60BM), PC70BM, PC84PM, and endohedral fullerenes are some alternative options [31].
It is worth mentioning that both the organic donor and acceptor materials were found to be very sensitive to temperature, humidity, and high costs.
For the deposition of the photoactive BHJ layer, a blend of P3HT:PCBM in a ratio of 1:1 (donor to acceptor) was implemented.
Polymers are applied as buffer layers or donor layers to improve a device’s efficiency.
They are considered to be a promising fullerene derivative-based donor-acceptor electron material for organic solar cells.
PCBM polymers are fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors for organic photovoltaics because of their high electron mobility.
The donor–acceptor morphology can be controlled using the metal sulfide geometry, which can create good percolation pathways.
The increase in the Jsc may also have been due to the increased incorporation of the Sb2S3 NCs in the P3HT, which demonstrated that the Sb2S3 NCs could work as electron acceptors comparable to the PCBM, which helped separate the bound photo-generated excitons.
It is still widely argued within several emerging PV technology communities that a good photovoltaic material combination (donor-acceptor or with interfacial layers) should display strong PL quenching of the main absorber due to beneficial induced charge transfer.
It is for example frequently highlighted that in donor-acceptor bulk heterojunctions, the PL quenching of the donor material induced by the (fullerene) acceptor presence is a sought-after feature.
In the OPV cell, the emission, when excited with a 405 nm continuous wave laser, is dominated by radiative recombination of Frenkel excitons within pure phases of the PCBM acceptor (Figure 5A).
The active layer materials were dissolved in chloroform with a concentration of 7.5 mg mL–1 containing the donor/acceptor (1/1.2 weight ratio).
The WF of ITO covered with NDI-S and NDI-M is located above the LUMO level of the electron acceptor BTP-eC9, which is the same as ZnO.
According to the integer charge-transfer model, such energy level alignments can cause spontaneous charge transfer from the acceptor to the CILs, which is essential for the formation of barrier-free interfacial contact.45 In order to investigate the interfacial resistance which is closely related to the interfacial contact, the EIS measurement was performed by using a E4990A Impedance Analyzer with a 20 mV ac signal at frequencies from 5 MHz to 20 Hz under the illumination of AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm–2.
P3HT is a prototype material for OPV applications40, it works as an absorber and electron donor material.
Herein, a novel small molecule (SM)‐donor, namely FYSM−SiCl, with trialkylsilyl and chlorine substitutions was designed and synthesized.
Compared to the original SM‐donor FYSM−H, FYSM−Si with trialkylsilyl substitution showed a decreased crystallinity and lower highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level, while FYSM−SiCl had an improved crystallinity, more ordered packing arrangement, significantly lower HOMO level, and predominant “face‐on” orientation.
Matched with a SM‐acceptor Y6, the FYSM−SiCl‐based all‐SM OSCs exhibited both high V oc of 0.85 V and high J sc of 23.7 mA cm−2, which is rare for all‐SM OSCs and could be attributed to the low HOMO level of FYSM−SiCl donor and the delicate balance between high crystallinity and suitable blend morphology.
This work demonstrated a promising method for the design of efficient SM‐donors by a side‐chain engineering strategy via the introduction of trialkylsilyl and chlorine substitutions.
Superb substitution: A small molecule donor FYSM−SiCl with trialkylsilyl and chlorine substitutions is developed.
[ 1 ,  2 ,  3 ] Recently, with the rapid development of high‐performance non‐fullerene acceptors, especially ITIC (2,2′‐[[6,6,12,12‐tetrakis(4‐hexylphenyl)‐6,12‐dihydrodithieno[2,3‐d:2′,3′‐d′]‐s‐indaceno[1,2‐b:5,6‐b′]dithiophene‐2,8‐diyl]bis[methylidyne(3‐oxo‐1H‐indene‐2,1(3H)‐diylidene)]]bispropanedinitrile) [4]  and Y6 (2,2′‐((2Z,2′Z)‐((12,13‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)‐3,9‐diundecyl‐12,13‐dihydro‐[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4‐e]thieno[2′′,3′′:4′,5′]thieno[2′,3′:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2‐g]thieno[2′,3′:4,5]thieno[3,2‐b]indole‐2,10‐diyl)bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6‐difluoro‐3‐oxo‐2,3‐dihydro‐1H‐indene‐2,1‐diylidene))dimalononitrile), [5]  OSCs have achieved great progress in photovoltaic performance with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) over 17 %.
[ 6 ,  7 ,  8 ,  9 ,  10 ] However, all the state‐of‐the‐art OSCs have to employ polymer donors, even though the polymers typically suffer from batch‐to‐batch variations in molecular weights and purity, which often leads to poor reproducibility in their photovoltaic performance in OSCs based on different batches of the “same” polymers.
[ 11 ,  12 ,  13 ] However, all‐SM OSCs used to have a low open‐circuit voltage (V oc) and/or short‐circuit current density (J sc) mainly due to the unmatched molecular energy levels and/or unsuitable blend morphology of SM‐donor/SM‐acceptor pair.
As a result, the PCEs of all‐SM OSCs lag far behind that of the OSCs based on polymer donors.
Recently, a variety of molecular modification strategies,[ 14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ] especially the side chain engineering,[ 18 ,  19 ,  20 ,  21 ] have been applied in the design of high‐performance SM‐donors for boosting the PCEs of all‐SM OSCs.
For example, by replacing a hexyl chain with a chlorine (Cl) atom on thienyl benzodithiophene (BDT) of the original SM‐donor BTR (2,6‐(5′′‐yl‐3′,3′′‐dihexyl‐[2,2′:5′,2′′‐terthiophene]‐5‐(3‐hexyl‐5‐methylene‐2‐thioxothiazolidin‐4‐one))‐4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl‐3‐hexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene), Lu and co‐workers developed a SM‐donor BTR‐Cl [18a]  with a deep‐shifted highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level, more ordered molecular packing, and improved crystallinity due to the large electronegativity of Cl atom, reduced dihedral angle between thienyl and BDT, and improved intermolecular interaction.
Li and co‐workers and Ge and co‐workers introduced fluorine atom into thienyl BDT and thus synthesized SM‐donors SM1‐F [19a]  and BTCE‐2F [19b]  with a deep‐shifted HOMO level, modulated crystallinity, and optimized morphology in the blend active layers.
Janssen and co‐workers developed a SM‐donor H31 (2,6‐(5′′‐yl‐3′,3′′‐dihexyl‐[2,2′:5′,2′′‐terthiophene]‐5‐(2‐ethylhexyl 2‐cyano‐3‐acrylate))‐4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene) with a deep HOMO level by attaching trialkylsilyl to thienyl BDT.
Recently, Hou and co‐workers provided a simple and effective strategy that introduces two‐dimensional (2D) phenyl‐substitution into BDT core, to enhance the crystallinity of SM‐donor and synergistically optimize the morphology of the all‐SM blend.
[21a]  Moreover, the reported SM‐donor B1 (2,6‐(5′′‐yl‐3′,3′′‐dihexyl‐[2,2′:5′,2′′‐terthiophene]‐5‐(3‐hexyl‐5‐methylene‐2‐thioxothiazolidin‐4‐one))‐4,8‐bis((4‐(2‐ethylhexylthio)phenyl)‐1‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene) achieved an outstanding PCE of 15.3 % in the all‐SM devices, a large step forward in the all‐SM OSCs field.
However, although all‐SM OSCs have made considerable progress, their PCEs are still lower than the polymer‐based OSCs, which is mainly due to the lack of high‐performance SM‐donors and the difficulty to achieve both high V oc and high J sc in the all‐SM OSCs.
Our previous work shows that the introduction of trialkylsilyl and/or chlorine into thienyl BDT unit of polymer donors can significantly reduce HOMO level, increase extinction coefficient, improve hole mobility, as well as modulate blend morphology simultaneously.
[22]  Inspired by the successes of the above SM‐donors and our previous work, herein, we developed three SM‐donors namely FYSM−H, FYSM−Si, and FYSM−SiCl, by attaching alkyl, trialkylsilyl, and both trialkylsilyl and Cl atom as substituents to thienyl BDT core, respectively.
These SM‐donors, from the original FYSM−H to FYSM−Si, and then FYSM−SiCl, show the gradually deep‐shifted HOMO levels and increased hole mobilities.
Moreover, the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom on thienyl BDT core modulates molecular crystallinity of SM‐donors and thus optimizes their blend morphologies.
The synthetic routes and chemical structures of the three SM‐donors are shown in Scheme 1 and Figure 1a, respectively, and the detailed synthesis processes are summarized in the Supporting Information.
As displayed in Figure S1, in the thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) measurements, all three SM‐donors have excellent thermal stability with a high decomposition temperature of approximately 380 °C at 5 % weight loss.
Synthetic routes of three SM‐donors of FYSM−H, FYSM−Si, and FYSM−SiCl.
(c) Cyclic voltammograms of three SM‐donors.
With the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom onto the thienyl BDT core, the three SM‐donors FYSM−H, FYSM−Si, and FYSM−SiCl show similar but slightly blue‐shifted absorption spectra in turn, which is mainly due to the increased steric hindrance effect of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions, as observed in previous work.
[22a]  The absorption onsets of the three SM‐donors are located at 723, 700, and 681 nm, respectively, with the corresponding optical bandgaps (E g opt) of 1.72, 1.77, and 1.82 eV, which is complementary to the absorption of SM‐acceptor Y6 with a E g opt of 1.34 eV.
Electrochemical cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were carried out to estimate energy levels of the three SM‐donors, as shown in Figure 1c.
According to the onsets of oxidation and reduction potentials (E ox and E red) of the three SM‐donors and the equations of E HOMO=−(E ox+4.71) eV and E LUMO=−(E red+4.71) eV, the HOMO and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels are calculated as −5.23 and −3.59 eV for FYSM−H, −5.29 and −3.61 eV for FYSM−Si, and −5.49 and −3.61 eV for FYSM−SiCl (Figure 1d), respectively.
The above result indicates that, with the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom onto the thienyl BDT core, the SM‐donors exhibit sequentially deep‐shifted HOMO levels because of the σ* (Si)−π* (C) bond interaction from alkylsilyl substituent and the strong electronegativity from Cl atom substituent,[ 20 ,  22a ] which is in favor of a higher V oc in the FYSM−SiCl‐based all‐SM OSC devices.
To probe the crystallinity of the three SM‐donors, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements were performed.
As shown in Figure 2a, among the three SM‐donors, FYSM−H has the highest melting temperature (T m) of 218 °C and a clear and sharp crystallization peak at 200 °C.
As shown in Figure 2d–f of the grazing incidence wide‐angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) measurements, all three SM‐donors in neat films have obvious multiple diffraction peaks of (100), (200), and (300) in the out‐of‐plane (OOP) direction, suggesting a highly ordered lamellar stacking and good crystallinity.
The “face‐on” dominant orientation of SM‐donors is beneficial to the charge transport of the related OSCs.
Hole mobilities (μ h) of the three SM‐donors were investigated by space‐charge‐limited current (SCLC) method.
As shown in Figure S3 and Table S1, with the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom, SM‐donors in the hole‐only devices exhibit similar but slightly increased μ h from 3.39×10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 for FYSM−H to 4.04×10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 for FYSM−Si and then 4.78×10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 for FYSM−SiCl.
The all‐SM OSCs with a device structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/SM‐donor:Y6/PFN−Br/Ag were fabricated to probe the effects of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions on photovoltaic performance of SM‐donors.
Considering their similar chemical structures, the all‐SM OSCs based on the three SM‐donors were fabricated using the same optimized processing conditions with Y6 as acceptor, in which the active layers with a similar thickness of approximately 90 nm were spin‐coated from a chloroform solution (22 mg mL−1 in total solid, dissolved 4 h under 50 °C) of SM‐donor:Y6 (w/w, 1 : 1) and then were treated by solvent vapour annealing (30 μL chloroform) for 60 s and thermal annealing for 10 min at 100 °C in turn.
The above result indicates that the introduction of both trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions onto the SM‐donors can synergistically improves V oc and J sc and thus boosts PCE of their all‐SM OSCs.
Photovoltaic performance of the Y6‐based all‐SM OSCs with different SM‐donors: (a) J‐V plots and (b) corresponding EQE curves.
Photovoltaic data of the Y6‐based all‐SM OSCs with different SM‐donors.
[ 23 ,  24 ] As shown in Figure 4a, compared to the FYSM−H:Y6‐based device with a P(E,T) of 70.7 % under the maximal power output condition, the devices based on FYSM−Si:Y6 and FYSM−SiCl:Y6 obtained higher P(E,T) values of 76.3 and 76.7 %, respectively, suggesting that the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions onto the SM‐donors can improve the exciton dissociation and charge extraction of the devices, which is consistent with their higher FF values in devices.
Moreover, to probe the effects of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions of SM‐donors on the charge recombination mechanisms of the devices, the dependence of V oc and J sc on light intensity (P) were studied.
[23]  As shown in Figure 4b of the plots of V oc versus lnP, the devices based on FYSM−Si:Y6 and FYSM−SiCl:Y6 display similar slopes of 1.15–1.18 k B T/q (where k B, T, and q are the Boltzmann constant, Kelvin temperature, and elementary charge, respectively), which are close to 1.0 k B T/q and much smaller than 1.52 k B T/q from the FYSM−H:Y6‐based device, suggesting less trap‐assisted recombination after side‐chain engineering of the SM‐donors.
Curves of (a) J ph vs. V eff, (b) V oc vs. light intensity, and (c) J sc vs. light intensity measured from the Y6‐based all‐SM OSCs with different SM‐donors.
(d) μ h and μ e values of the Y6‐based devices with different SM‐donors measured by SCLC method.
Compared to the FYSM−H:Y6 film, the FYSM−Si:Y6 film shows a diffused (100) peak in the IP direction, while the FYSM−SiCl:Y6 film has a very sharp additional (100) peak at 3.49 nm−1 with a very high crystal coherence length (CCL) of 16.15 nm in the IP direction, which is consistent with the results of DSC measurements from SM‐donor neat films.
As shown in Figure 5c of the height images, with the introduction of trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions onto SM‐donors, the related active layers exhibit gradually increased root mean square roughness (R q) values from FYSM−H:Y6 (1.98 nm) to FYSM−Si:Y6 (2.50 nm) and then to FYSM−SiCl:Y6 (4.90 nm).
Two novel small‐molecule (SM)‐donors, namely FYSM−Si and FYSM−SiCl, were developed by attaching the trialkylsilyl substitution, and both trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions, respectively.
From the original FYSM−H (2,6‐(5′′‐yl‐3′,3′′‐dihexyl‐[2,2′:5′,2′′‐terthiophene]‐5‐(3‐hexyl‐5‐methylene‐2‐thioxothiazolidin‐4‐one))‐4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene) to FYSM−Si, and then FYSM−SiCl, the SM‐donors show gradually deep‐shifted HOMO levels and increased hole mobilities.
Moreover, the introduction of both trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions onto the SM‐donors leads to improved molecular crystallinity and packing, and thus optimized blend film morphologies.
This work offers a promising method to design efficient SM‐donors by side‐chain engineering strategy via the introduction of both trialkylsilyl and Cl atom substitutions.
[ 22a ,  25 ] Compound 3 and SM‐acceptor Y6 were purchased from 1‐Material Inc. and Solarmer Materials Inc., respectively.
SM‐donors FYSM−H, FYSM−Si, and FYSM−SiCl were synthesized according to following procedures:
The prepared aldehydes and acetyl groups were further used to couple indolo[3,2-b]carbazole with various electron withdrawing groups to get donor–acceptor systems 78 and 81 (Scheme 22).
Khodorkovsky and coworkers prepared a new fused indolocarbazole donor system 83, by two different approaches.
prepared a series of donor–acceptor systems starting from indolo[3,2-b]carbazole-2,8-dicarbaldehyde 89.
both prepared copolymers consisting of indolo[3,2-b]carbazole 106 as the donor-system and benzothiadiazole 107 as the acceptor part.
prepared several donor–acceptor alternating copolymers 116 starting from 2,8- and 3,9-diboronate esters 111 as the indolo[3,2-b]carbazole donorsystem.
These indolo[3,2-b]carbazoles are coupled with four different dibrominated acceptorsystems 112, 113, 114 and 115 by performing a Suzuki coupling (Scheme 31) [78].
prepared polymers 127 by performing Sonogashira couplings on 2,8-dialkynyl-indolo[3,2-b]carbazole 124 and halogenated acceptor systems like BODIPY 125 or DPP (diketopyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole) 126 (Scheme 34).
(Scheme 51) were connected with different acceptors by Stille coupling with the stannylated compound 224 to obtain an alternating copolymer (Scheme 57).
The authors also used two different acceptors to copolymerize with their donor systems: 1,3-dibromo-5-octylthieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6-dione 229 and 3,3′-dibromo-5,5′-di-2-ethylhexyl 1,1’-bi(thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole)-4,4’,6,6’(5H,5′H)-tetrone 230.
It was also proven that the benzene core of the di-alkynyl could be replaced by either electron-rich as electron-poor aryls to obtain various donor–acceptor systems.
Imaging of the acceptor and donor network in terms of structure and composition should considerably help to better understand organic photovoltaics.
According to the previous report, this phenomenon can be attributed to the UV laser treatment influencing the activation of Ga dopants and oxygen vacancies in ZnO based materials which act as electron donors.33–37 When the energy density is fixed at 105 mJ cm−2, the films are damaged by the second pulse count (Fig.
To answer this question, we report herein the synthesis and direct comparison of two indeno[1,2-b]thiophene (IDT) end-capped perylene diimide regioisomers (PDI) (1,6 and 1,7) used as non-fullerene acceptors in organic solar cells.
It turned out that in our case, ie, when blended with the well-known PTB7-Th donor polymer, higher performance was reached for devices made with the 1,6-analogue.
Major contributors to the recent resurgence of organic photovoltaics (OPVs)1–3, molecular non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have driven up power conversion efficiencies (PCEs), in a short amount of time, from “what a fullerene derivative does best”4,5 to more than 15%6–8.
In all cases, best PCEs (ca 0.67%) were reached with the 1,7-isomers once blended with different donor polymers and attributed to a better phase separation.
For the sake of comparison, each regioisomer was first blended with the same donor polymer, namely the PTB7-Th, in a 1:1 w/w ratio at 10 mg/mL total concentration in chlorobenzene.
In addition to the seminal paper reported by Ge et al.34, we demonstrate herein that using the more conjugated 1,7-isomer to prepare new non fullerene acceptors is not an absolute rule to efficiency.
In terms of molecular and macromolecular engineering, two interesting contributions discuss new methods to tune the optoelectronic properties of the electron donor polymer, while a third contribution is proposing an analysis of the effect of molecular architecture on photocurrent generation.
present a novel approach based on the use of spirocyclic systems in the conjugated backbone of electron donor polymers to tune the energy levels of the materials [2].
point out the importance of singlet exciton lifetime in electron donor polymers in regards to device performances, i.e., photocurrent generation [4].
Regarding the active layer morphology, donor–acceptor phase separation control is still a key issue in the OPV area.
propose to (re)consider bilayer architecture with an optimized sequential solution deposition technique, allowing the control of the morphology at the single interface between the electron donor polymer and the acceptor molecular system [5].
The process leads to an increase in the internal charge collection efficiency and might allow the reassessment of donor polymers which have shown insufficient performances in BHJ architectures.
have also been working on the issue of the donor–acceptor phase separation in BHJ systems, but from a characterization point of view [6].
Quantitative measurement of the fraction of each of the donor and acceptor materials can thus be obtained.
One-Material Inc provided the donor polymer PTB7 and electron acceptor PC71BM (99.5%).
The molecular structures of PTB7, PC71BM, and TCNE as the donor, acceptor, and passivator materials used in our work and a simple schematic illustration of the device architecture and SEM cross-section image of a fabricated device are shown in Fig.
(b) Energy level diagram of the materials used in OSC device (c) chemical structures of TCNE (surface passivator), PTB7 (donor), and PC71BM (acceptor) (d) SEM image for the cross-section of the device.
The schematic depiction of fabricated device structure and molecular structures of the polymer donor, fullerene acceptor, and TCNE materials are presented in Fig.
Theoretical studies demonstrated an interesting behavior of charge transport as electron donor (hole-transporting) active material for heterojunction cells.
A preliminary study of small-molecule organic solar cells based on DCVT-BTT (as the P-type organic semiconductor) and phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (as the N-type organic semiconductor) exhibited a power conversion efficiency of 2.04% at a donor: acceptor weight ratio of 1:1.
The direct and fundamental strategy to improve the JSC is to design new electron donor (D) molecules with a broad light absorption range and high light harvesting efficiency.
A suitable compound to be used as a spacer is the asymmetric core benzo [1,2-b:3,4-b′:6,5-b″]trithiophene (BTT), which has been used in several investigations as a molecular basis for the manufacture of new compounds with electron donor behavior [22,23,24,25].
Another strategy used to modify the electronic properties of a molecule is the incorporation of specific functional groups with high electron-withdrawing potential, called acceptor groups (AG).
One of the most used acceptor groups is dicyanovinylene (DCV), which in addition to fulfilling its structural function, offers a simple synthetic methodology.
In order to extend the light absorption range and induce an efficient solid-state packing and by considering the previously mentioned factors, we designed a small molecule that has an asymmetrical benzotrithiophene (BTT) unit as the π-spacer central core and three dicyanovinyl-thiophene (DCVT) acceptor group (Scheme 1).
As expected, the final compound exhibited broad and solar redshift absorption in contrast to the core structure alone and can be used as electron donor active material in OSC devices with bulk heterojunction architecture using phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) as an electron acceptor active material.
All these features show a good charge transfer behavior when DCVT-BTT interacts with a light photon, typical for the behavior of an electron donor material in an organic solar cell.
The calculated relative charge mobilities, in general, produce low values for holes and electrons, but the strong P donor character vs. N acceptor is clear in this organic semiconductor.
Solar cells were fabricated using DCVT-BTT (small molecule) as an electron donor, and PC61BM was used as the electron acceptor, which were deposited by spin coating using dichlorobenzene as the solvent.
Different weight ratios of donor and acceptor molecules were used (2:1, 1:1, 1:2), and the photovoltaic effect was quantified for all compositions.
Compared to the UV–visible spectra obtained for the small-donor molecule in acetone solution, the maximum wavelength in the visible spectrum of the films as well as its redshift (12 nm) also suggested an intermolecular interaction in the solid state.
A high film quality allows a greater interconnection between the donors and acceptors species, thus allowing better interfacial contact with the buffer layer and electrode, which has been shown to improve photovoltaic properties [38,39,40,41].
SEM micrographs of the active donor: acceptor layer of OSC devices are reported in Figure 6.
The differences observed in the photovoltaic behavior for the OSCs prepared using DCVT-BTT:PC61BM at various weight ratios are mainly related to an effect of saturation of active species, either donors or acceptors, which causes an easier recombination of excitons, reducing its photovoltaic properties [71,72,73].
These studies demonstrate that the designed molecule presents an electron donor behavior in heterojunction solar cells, due to its molecular structure, electronic properties, and bulk distribution of their components.
According to the results presented in the previous sections and with respect to the dynamics of electron transfer between donor and acceptor species, it is quite clear that the most efficient factor achieved for the 1:1 ratio is directly related to the increase in the number of electrons that are transferred through the interface, in relation to the strong interaction between DCVT-BTT and PC61BM and leading to a decrease in the recombination of charge carriers.
This type of assembly exhibited a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 2.04% at a donor: acceptor weight ratio of 1:1.
The origin of the n-type conductivity in the sol-gel-grown ZnO is often ascribed to oxygen vacancies (VO) in the ZnO lattice27–30, although whether VO is a shallow donor state or a deep trap state is still being heavily debated31.
For instance, for solar cells based on the most efficient acceptor materials, including 2,2’-((2Z,2’Z)-((12,13-bis(2-ethylhexyl)−3,9-diundecyl-12,13-dihydro-[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-e]thieno[2”,3”:4’,5’]thieno [2’,3’:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2-g]thieno[2’,3’:4,5]thieno[3,2-b]indole-2,10-diyl)bis (methanylylidene))bis(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene)) dimalononitrile (Y6)56 or 3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))−5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2’,3’-d’]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’] dithiophene (ITIC)57, the lowest-unoccupied-molecular-orbital (LUMO) energy level of the active layer lays at approximately 3.9 eV, thus, the desired work function of the cathode should be lower than 3.9 eV.
Herein, we develop an ultra-narrow bandgap acceptor BTPSeV-4F through replacement of terminal thiophene by selenophene in the central fused ring of BTPSV-4F, for constructing efficient tandem organic solar cells.
The organic solar cells with BTPSeV-4F as acceptor demonstrate a higher power conversion efficiency of 14.2% with a record high short-circuit current density of 30.1 mA cm−2 and low energy loss of 0.55 eV benefitted from the low non-radiative energy loss due to the suppression of triplet exciton formation.
We also develop a high-performance medium bandgap acceptor O1-Br for front cells.
The results indicate that the suppression of triplet excitons formation in the near-infrared-absorbing acceptor by molecular design is an effective way to improve the photovoltaic performance of the tandem organic solar cells.Reducing energy loss of sub-cells is critical for high performance tandem organic solar cells.
Here, the authors design and synthesize an ultra-narrow bandgap acceptor through replacement of terminal thiophene by selenophene in the central fused ring, achieving efficiency of 19% for tandem cells.
In recent years, small molecule acceptors (SMAs) have shown great tunability in optical bandgap (Egopt) and electron energy levels, providing a wide range of new opportunities for building highly efficient TOSCs11–15.
Great efforts have been devoted to developing wide bandgap (WBG) and narrow bandgap (NBG) acceptors and great progress has been made in fabricating high-performance TOSCs16–19.
adopted mixed narrow bandgap acceptors F8IC and FOIC as the rear cell materials and achieved NREL certified power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 11.6% in 201920.
synthesized a wide bandgap non-fused acceptor GS-ISO, and the tandem organic photovoltaic cell adopting PBDB-TF:GS-ISO as the front subcell showed PCE of 19–20%22,23.
Although a few ultra-narrow bandgap acceptors could meet the demand of Egopt, it is still difficult to simultaneously offer a high Jsc with high external quantum efficiency (EQE) response in the near-infrared (NIR) region25–28.
In the donor:acceptor (D:A) based blend films in OSCs, the lower emission intensity in the NIR region is specifically caused by the commonly encountered energy transition between the triplet (T1) excited state and the ground state (S0), and this dynamics is more dominating in the ultra-NBG photovoltaic materials due to the higher overlap of the wavefunctions of S1 or T1 states and the higher isoenergetic vibration of the S0 state30,37,38.
Inspired by recent advances of A-DA’D-A acceptors based single junction devices14,41, it is a promising strategy to design A-DA’D-A type SMAs with suitable bandgaps for constructing complementary absorbing sub-cells of TOSCs.
The single-junction OSCs based on BTPSeV-4F as acceptor and PTB7-Th as polymer donor demonstrated a higher PCE of 14.2% with a record high Jsc of 30.1 mA cm−2, which is the highest-performed OSC based on NIR acceptor with optical bandgaps below 1.2 eV so far.
In addition, for better bandgap matching with NBG SMAs in the TOSC, we further designed and synthesized a medium bandgap A-DA′D-A acceptor O1-Br as the SMA of the front cell through bandgap engineering toward the higher Egopt of 1.58 eV.
With BTPSeV-4F and O1-Br as the acceptor materials in rear cell and front cell respectively, the resulting TOSCs reached a high PCE of 19.0%.
Considering that the A-DA’D-A structured SMAs led the breakthrough in the single-junction OSCs, we further designed the acceptors with suitable Egopt for the application in the front cell and rear cell of the TOSCs based on the A-DA’D-A structured SMAs.
Figure 1a shows the chemical structures of acceptors, including our designed medium bandgap O1-Br and ultra-narrow bandgap BTPSeV-4F for the application as acceptors in front and rear cell of the TOSCs, and the representative SMAs of narrow bandgap Y6 and ultra-narrow bandgap BTPSV-4F from which the new acceptors were designed.
1Materials design and characterization.a Molecular structures of the acceptors with arrows indicating absorption edge wavelength of the acceptor films.
d Energy level diagram of the donors and acceptors.
a Molecular structures of the acceptors with arrows indicating absorption edge wavelength of the acceptor films.
d Energy level diagram of the donors and acceptors.
For fabricating high performance TOSCs, it is also important to design the medium bandgap acceptor for the front cell.
In order to simultaneously get ideal bandgap and higher Voc, a new medium bandgap acceptor O1-Br was designed and synthesized by modification of Y6 with introducing monobromine substitution instead of bifluorine substitution on the end group and replacing the upper alkyl side chains with alkoxy side chains45,46 for blue-shifting its absorption.
Supplementary Figure 1 shows the absorption spectra of the acceptors in chloroform solutions.
To verify the effects of above-mentioned strategies in the molecular design of the acceptors, we performed theoretical calculation by using density functional theory (DFT).
Figure 1b shows the electrostatic potential (ESP) distributions of the four acceptors.
Obviously, ESP values on the IC terminal of O1-Br are much lower than those in Y6, indicating that introducing monobromine substitution and alkoxy side chains can effectively increase the electronic density of the terminal moieties thus reduce the ICT effect of acceptors.
All the two newly designed electron acceptors exhibit almost similar conformation with Y6, which is propitious to form efficient charge transport channel.
The calculated lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) electronic density distributions of the four acceptors were shown in Supplementary Fig. 2.
Cyclic voltammetry measurements were performed to estimate electronic energy levels of the acceptors with Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode47, and the measured cyclic voltammograms are shown in Supplementary Fig.
While for O1-Br in comparison with Y6, its ELUMO is upshifted from −3.92 to −3.76 eV with the same EHOMO of −5.70 eV, which agrees with the blue-shift of its absorption, and the upshifted ELUMO of the acceptor is beneficial to higher Voc of the OSCs.
In considering the complementary absorption and energy levels matching of the donor and acceptor materials (see Fig.
1d), we selected the wide bandgap polymer PM6 as the donor for the front cell with O1-Br as acceptor and the narrow bandgap polymer PTB7-Th as the donor for the rear cell with BTPSeV-4F as acceptor.
To check the photovoltaic properties of OSCs based on BTPSV-4F and BTPSeV-4F for the application as rear cell in TOSCs, PTB7-Th was selected as the polymer donor with a conventional device structure of indium tin oxide (ITO)/PEDOT:PSS/active layer/PDINN/Ag.
2Photovoltaic performance of ultra-narrow bandgap acceptors.a J−V curves of the optimized OSCs based on PTB7-Th:BTPSV-4F and PTB7-Th:BTPSeV-4F, under the illumination of AM1.5G, 100 mW cm−2.
Photovoltaic performance of ultra-narrow bandgap acceptors.
Therefore, the signal rising at ~1400 nm can be explained by free carrier recombination to the triplet states of the narrow bandgap acceptors.
These results could well explain the reduced non-radiative recombination loss in PTB7-Th:BTPSeV-4F, suggesting that the selenophene-substitution can inhibit charge recombination to triplet excitons in the acceptor.Fig.
To suppress charge recombination via the triplet channel, it is imperative to reduce the singlet−triplet energy gap (ΔEST) of the narrow bandgap acceptors55.
DFT calculations have also been performed on the two acceptors to characterize the nature of excited triplet states56.
The frontier molecular orbitals of the acceptors are shown in Supplementary Fig.
The LUMO is delocalized over the whole molecular backbone while the HOMO is localized mainly in the end group of the two acceptors.
The BTPSeV-4F acceptor exhibits a reduced ΔEST (0.22 eV) compared to that of the BTPSV-4F acceptor (0.25 eV).
The π–π stacking distance (d) /CCL (crystalline coherence length) of these acceptors are 3.57/27 Å for BTPSV-4F and 3.53/21 Å for BTPSeV-4F.
By mixed with PTB7-Th polymer donor, the two blend films show a predominantly face-on orientation (Supplementary Fig.
For the donor PTB7-Th, the π–π stacking distance in the PTB7-Th:BTPSeV-4F is 3.66 Å which is slightly shorter than 3.71 Å in the PTB7-Th:BTPSV-4F film.
All the results indicate that replacing sulfur with selenium in the fused ring unit can effectively strengthen the inter-molecular interactions and improve molecular packing and charge transport properties of the acceptors41.
Obviously, BTPSeV-4F exhibits superiority in both broad absorption (low Egopt) and high photovoltaic performance, which would be a promising acceptor for constructing the rear cell in high performance TOSCs.
So, the total Eloss of 0.55 eV in medium bandgap system of PM6:O1-Br is also comparable to those of high-performance single-junction devices based on narrower bandgap A-DA’D-A acceptors.Table 2Photovoltaic parameters of the optimal single junction OSCs and the TOSC, under the illumination of AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm−2DeviceVoc [V]Jsc [mA·cm−2]FF (%)PCEmax (%)Front cella1.04 (1.04 ± 0.01)20.0 (19.7 ± 0.3)74.4 (74.2 ± 0.3)15.5 (15.2 ± 0.2)cRear cellb0.66 (0.66 ± 0.01)30.1 (28.9 ± 0.6)71.0 (71.0 ± 0.4)14.2 (13.9 ± 0.2)Tandem device1.69 (1.69 ± 0.01)15.0 (14.7 ± 0.2)74.8 (74.6 ± 0.3)19.0 (18.6 ± 0.3)aThe thickness of active layer for the front cell is 100 nm.bThe thickness of active layer for the rear cell is 100 nm.cThe average values were extracted from 10 devices.
The device with the O1-Br acceptor also exhibits the reduced energy loss, which represents one of the lowest values among the medium bandgap front cells.
Obviously, the BTPSeV-4F and O1-Br based devices exhibit great superiority in both Egopt and energy loss, which would be promising acceptors for constructing the sub-cells in high-performance TOSCs.
b Plots of Voc of the OSCs vs Egopt of the acceptors used in the front cell and rear cell of the TOSCs reported in literatures.
b Plots of Voc of the OSCs vs Egopt of the acceptors used in the front cell and rear cell of the TOSCs reported in literatures.
Inspired by recent advances of the A-DA’D-A acceptors for single junction OSC, we developed the wide bandgap acceptor O1-Br and ultra-narrow bandgap acceptor BTPSeV-4F by molecular structure modification of the representative A-DA’D-A type SMAs Y6 and BTPSV-4F respectively, for constructing efficient TOSCs.
The binary OSCs with BTPSeV-4F as acceptor and PTB7-Th as donor demonstrated a higher PCE of 14.2% with a highest Jsc of 30.1 mA cm−2.
Importantly, the BTPSeV-4F-based device shows a low energy loss of 0.55 eV for such a low bandgap acceptor.
The single junction OSC based on PM6:O1-Br showed a PCE of 15.5% with a high Voc of 1.04 V. With adopting BTPSeV-4F and O1-Br as the rear cell and front cell acceptors respectively, the resulting TOSCs demonstrated a high PCE of 19%.
All the results indicate that the formation of triplet excitons can be suppressed in the near-infrared-absorbing systems, and the bandgap engineering of A-DA’D-A acceptors is an effective strategy to minimize energy losses in TOSCs.
The polymer donor PM6 was purchased from Solarmer Materials Inc.
The polymer donor PTB7-Th was purchased from 1-Material Inc. BTPSe-CHO, BTPSV-4F and O1-CHO were prepared according to the literatures37,38,40.
The NMR spectra of acceptors are shown in Supplementary Figs. 20–25.
The synthetic routes of acceptor BTPSeV-4F and O1-Br are shown in Supplementary Figs.
For the measurement of films, the acceptors and blend films were prepared by spin-coating the corresponding solutions on quartz plates.
To achieve high efficiency for most of the solution-processed SMSC systems including BTR:PC71BM, SVA is a common method for the optimisation [1], which can increase/control the degree of crystallisation of the small molecule donor in the active layers [13].
Note that the open circuit voltage (V OC) is rather stable (Figure 1(b)) for all the devices implying that changes of the effective bandgap between the donor and acceptor are minor during degradation.
Here, our study mainly focuses on the role of the BTR donor, and further studies are needed to understand the role of PC71BM to the degradation.
Overall, this work provides guide for the design of solution-processed small molecule donors from the viewpoint of their degradation mechanism, i.e.
The bathochromic shift in the λ max of BTFP (relative to PCMB) is likely to contribute to improved light absorption of a suitable donor for photovoltaic applications.
However, owing to the dependence of PV properties on frontier orbital energy levels of donor and acceptors, the application of PCBM to all donor polymers irrespective of their optoelectronic properties leads to untrue PV properties.
Besides the structural characterization of BTFP, we report its electrochemical and spectroscopic properties to assess its potential as an electron‐acceptor material for organic PV cells.
d) Photoluminescence quenching spectra of F8BT [donor–acceptor blend ratio (1:1)].
e) Photoluminescence quenching spectra of F8T2 [donor–acceptor blend ratio (1:1)].
The absorption responses of BTFP and PCBM (as acceptors) were investigated in thin‐film blends with donor materials.
Donors and donor–acceptor blends were investigated in thin films prepared from chloroform solution.
For donors, we employed F8BT and F8T2.
For donor–acceptor blends, films were cast from a 1:1 blend ratio.
Figure 8 c shows the spectra of the investigated donors and donor–acceptor blends.
The maximum wavelengths of absorption of the donor (F8BT and F8T2) and donor–acceptor blends (F8BT:BTFP, F8BT:PCBM, F8T2:BTFP, and F8T2:PCBM) are observed in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
However, a bathochromic shift is observed for donor–acceptor blends with BTFP as the acceptor and with an interesting emerging peak at around 550 nm for both donors.
This property displayed by BTFP is capable of enhancing the photophysical properties when blended with a suitable donor, thereby enhancing PV device performance.
To investigate the electron‐accepting properties of BTFP, the photoluminescence spectra of donor–acceptor blends were assayed.
For donors, we also employed F8BT and F8T2.
BTFP was used as the acceptor and was compared to PCBM.
The photoluminescence quenching of both acceptors differs, as can be seen in Figures 8 d and 8 e (inset).
The quenching of donor F8BT and F8T2 blended with PCBM and BTFP acceptors in separate experiments decreased in the order PCBM > BTFP.
The reduced quenching observed for BTFP relative to PCBM can be attributed to the inability of BTFP to properly mix with the investigated donors as a result of the solubility challenge of BTFP.
In this situation, the distance between the donor and acceptor interfacial layer is likely to increase, thereby increasing the distance the electrons will have to travel.
The ability of the acceptor to accept released electrons from the donor is, therefore, hindered and, as a result, its quenching potential is not optimum.
The first reduction wave is indicative of the electron‐acceptor strength of the compounds.
C60 (±0.50 V) appeared to be a better electron acceptor than PCBM (±0.61 V) and BTFP (±0.62 V), and there is the possibility of electron transfer with PCBM and BTFP, owing to the cathodic shifts.
When blended with the investigated donors, F8BT and F8T2, a bathochromic shift coupled with a new peak at longer wavelengths were observed for the blends compared to blends with PCBM as the acceptor.
This is likely to enhance the PV performance of a suitable donor.
When the lowest local triplet excited state lies lower in energy than the CT state, back electron transfer (BET) or BHT from the CT state to form a triplet state on the donor or acceptor is energetically favorable19.
BHT has been significantly less scrutinized than BET but is gaining interest in the context of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs)20–22.
To provide a more comprehensive study of the dimerization mechanism and assess whether rapid exciton quenching is indeed sufficient to avoid dimerization or whether BHT plays a role, we here use model dilute BHJs with a donor (D):C60 ratio of only 6% molar.
As the blend morphologies at such high fullerene contents essentially consist of isolated donors surrounded by C60 clusters and are remarkably insensitive to the donor choice, this allows us to account for the morphology and to separate it from the influence of donor energetics31–35.
With TAPC as donor, a change in absorption at 320 nm, characteristic of dimerization, is clearly observed within the first hour of illumination.
By contrast, there is practically no absorption change at 320 nm after 128 h with m-MTDATA as donor.
As it has been shown a number of times that the inclusion of small amounts of donor in C60 leads to comparable morphologies31–34, the difference between the blend photo-stabilities cannot be explained by a morphological effect.
To better understand the dramatic influence of the donor on photostability, we degrade seven dilute BHJs with different donors and a fixed D:C60 molar ratio of 6%.
The donors are chosen to cover CT energetics above and below the C60 T1, i.e., 1.43–1.5 eV38,39, as well as a wide range of hole mobilities and CT reorganization energies λCT.
The peculiarities of these devices and the role of donor have been discussed extensively elsewhere31,32,40,42–44.
For our purposes, these devices provide a convenient model system in which the donor influence can be varied without significantly altering the morphology.
It is noteworthy that unlike the other donors, F4ZnPc is not transparent to sunlight and contributes to the EQE.
By contrast, no significant change is observed after 21 h ageing when m-MTDATA, TPDP (2,2’,6,’6-tetraphenyl-4,4’-bipyranylidene) or DMFL-NPD (9,9-dimethyl-N,N’-diphenyl-N,N’-di-m-tolyl-9H-fluorene-2,7-diamine) are used as donor.
As the dilute architecture ensures only minor variations in electron mobility42,52, C60 domain size, and C60 crystallinity35, and because the donor mobility does not correlate with the presence of dimerization (Table 1), both morphology and charge carrier mobilities can be excluded as factors in the photo-degradation.
F4ZnPc:C60 (annotated) represents a special case, as the donor triplet energy (1.13 eV) is lower than the ET1, which is not the case for the other materials27.
F4ZnPc:C60 (annotated) represents a special case, as the donor triplet energy (1.13 eV) is lower than the ET1, which is not the case for the other materials27.
This process is analogous to the more commonly discussed BET to a donor triplet19.
BET is energetically impossible for these four blends since TAPC, m-MTDATA, and DMFL-NPD are wide (optical) gap materials (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\gtrsim$$\end{document}≳3 eV) with donor triplet energies (ET,Donor) much larger than the measured ECT.
3Schematic representation of the different photophysical pathways occurring in the studied systems.a Pathways for ECT > ET1, b for ECT < ET1, and c when both the donor and C60 Triplets (TC60 = T1) are lower in energy than the CT state.
The donors for which each case occurs are indicated above and the key rates (k) of pathways discussed in the text are labeled.
a Pathways for ECT > ET1, b for ECT < ET1, and c when both the donor and C60 Triplets (TC60 = T1) are lower in energy than the CT state.
The donors for which each case occurs are indicated above and the key rates (k) of pathways discussed in the text are labeled.
d Integrated remaining photo-induced absorption in the 1.8–2 eV region at long time delays (ns–µs) for dilute blends with various donors at 77 K (300 K in Supplementary Fig. 9).
d Integrated remaining photo-induced absorption in the 1.8–2 eV region at long time delays (ns–µs) for dilute blends with various donors at 77 K (300 K in Supplementary Fig. 9).
An interesting case occurs when the donor triplet energy (ET,Donor) is below ET1 (C60) as for dilute F4ZnPc:C60 blends (ET,Donor = 1.13 eV, Fig. 3c)27.
For this system, TREPR indicates the formation of donor triplets via BET, although some Dexter transfer from C60 triplets may also help populate the donor triplet (Fig.
Such efficient BET would come at the expense of initial performance and might enable triplet-related donor degradation pathways.
In other words, kinetic stability is rather unlikely to be achievable and acceptors (donors) should be inherently stable to inert reactions mediated by a single triplet, such as dimerization.
In summary, we have used model BHJs with 6% donor:C60 molar ratio to show that fullerene dimerization can occur even when photo-generated excitons are efficiently quenched.
We also point out that a specific donor cannot easily be claimed to prevent dimerization as different processing conditions can result in different CT energies for the same D:A combination79.
This means the ECT of 1.5 eV predicted to give optimal device performance cannot be achieved without a fast degradation for fullerene acceptors40.
Nevertheless, the significantly improved early-time stability of several NFAs when compared to PC61BM suggests it is possible to find acceptors, which are intrinsically stable to triplet-mediated reactions under inert conditions80–83.
These materials are a) fluorinated 2-alkyl-benzol[d] [1–3]triazole (FTAZ), a high hole-mobility polymer used for transistors and photovoltaics, b) diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP3T), an acceptor polymer used in field-effect transistors (FET), c) Y5(PffBT4T-2OD) film that possesses remarkable temperature controllable morphology, d) a neat conjugated polymer P3HT, Poly(3-(hexylthiophene-2,5diyl) film that is used in optoelectronic devices and as a conductive binder for Li-ion batteries, e) phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) films and its soluble derivatives used as n-type organic semiconductors, and f) excitonic photovoltaic material 95%:5% donor-acceptor blend P3HT:PCBM produced by 2 different spin rates.
Herein, we developed a class of non-fullerene acceptors with varied side groups as an alternative to aliphatic chains.
Among them, the acceptors with conjugated side groups show larger side-group torsion and more twisted backbone, however, they can deliver an efficiency as high as 18.3% in xylene-processed cells, which is among the highest values reported for non-halogenated solvent processed cells.
Meanwhile, decent thermal/photo stability is realized for these acceptors containing conjugated side groups.
Through the investigation of the geometry–performance–stability relationship, we highlight the importance of side-group steric hinderance of acceptors in achieving combined high-performance, stable, and eco-friendly organic photovoltaics.The intrinsic trade-off between efficiency and stability is a challenging issue for organic photovoltaics.
Here, the authors develop non-fullerene acceptors with tailored side-group hindrance and backbone planarity and realise efficiency of 18.3% and good stability for xylene-processed solar cells
The replacement of fullerene derivatives by non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has helped ascend the PCE of single-junction OPV to beyond 18%5–11, closing the gap with other PV technologies12.
Meanwhile, this strategy also improves the OPV stability by overcoming the molecular diffusion and aggregation of spherical fullerene acceptors13–15.
Owing to the narrow bandgap and moderate crystallization, the twisted acceptors perform well in xylene-processed solar cells, with the best PCE reaching 18.3%, among the highest efficiencies reported for non-halogenated solvent processed OPV.
Meantime, a decent thermal/photo-thermal stability is realized for these acceptors with large structural steric hinderance.
1Molecular structure/geometry and photoelectric properties.a Chemical structure of acceptors with varied side groups.
b Optimized molecular geometry for acceptors calculated from DFT; the red and green arrows indicate the outward side group and terminal group torsions, respectively.
c Optical bandgap of neat acceptors determined from Tauc plots.
a Chemical structure of acceptors with varied side groups.
b Optimized molecular geometry for acceptors calculated from DFT; the red and green arrows indicate the outward side group and terminal group torsions, respectively.
c Optical bandgap of neat acceptors determined from Tauc plots.
Five acceptors with significantly different side groups were synthesized based on a general procedure described in the Supplementary Information.
The intermediate of BTP-Br π-core was used to couple with non-substituted and brominated thiophene (Th and TBr) by using Stille coupling reaction before condensing with the 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC-2F) terminal group, finally generating the target acceptors of BTP-Th and BTP-TBr, respectively (Supplementary Fig. 3).
The structure of these acceptors was characterized by proton nuclear magnetic resonance (Supplementary Fig.
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed to reveal obviously different optimal molecular geometries for these acceptors, where an extra acceptor BTP-BO with commonly used aliphatic chain was included for comparison (Fig. 1a)34.
Besides, these three acceptors show large side-group torsion angles (> 43o), which could inhibit the potential excessive aggregation of NFAs induced by strong backbone interactions under external stresses.
When comparing the film absorption of all five acceptors, we find those with conjugated side groups show red-shifted absorption, and BTP-BO with four aliphatic side chains has the largest Eg.
Moreover, acceptors with larger structural torsion show enhanced shoulder peak in the high photon energy region, which is commonly observed for acceptors containing conjugated side groups35–37.
The DFT calculations also reveal the molecular frontier orbital distributions of these acceptors (Supplementary Fig. 12).
Compared to BTP-H, the higher LUMO level of acceptors with bulky side groups (i.e., BTP-TBr, BTP-Th, and BTP-BO) implies a potentially higher open-circuit voltage (VOC) for solar cells based on these acceptors.
These acceptors have varied HOMO levels ranging from −5.70 to −5.78 eV (Supplementary Table 1), matching well with that of the polymer donor PTzBI-dF (−5.59 eV, Supplementary Fig. 9b)38.
Devices based on PTzBI-dF and varied acceptors show significantly different photovoltaic parameters (Supplementary Fig.
Since acceptors bearing long aliphatic side chains show good solubility in non-halogenated solvents, they were thus evaluated in xylene (XY)-processed devices.
Particularly, acceptors with large structural torsion perform better in XY-processed devices (Fig.
c EQEEL for devices based on various acceptors.
d EQE calculated from FTPS (EQEFTPS); EU was obtained by exponential fitting of the low photon energy region of FTPS.Table 1Photovoltaic parameters for xylene-processed solar cells based on polymer donor PTzBI-dF and various acceptorsaThe errors in the bracket are defined as standard deviation.bAverage of at least 16 individual devices.cAnti-reflection coating (MgF2) of 140 nm was deposited on the back side of ITO glass.
c EQEEL for devices based on various acceptors.
Photovoltaic parameters for xylene-processed solar cells based on polymer donor PTzBI-dF and various acceptors
For devices based on planar acceptors, i.e., BTP-H and BTP-Br, modest PCEs of <15% are obtained mainly due to the low FFs of 68–69%.
These much lower FFs than those of devices based on twisted acceptors shows the importance of suitable structural steric hinderance of acceptors in achieving an optimal bulk morphology.
Three representative acceptors, i.e., BTP-Br, BTP-BO, and BTP-TBr, with distinctly different side-group hinderance were selected for detailed comparisons.
Compared with BTP-BO-devices having a low ΔVOC, nr of 0.216 V, the incorporation of conjugated side group slightly enlarges the ΔVOC, nr (0.230 V for BTP-TBr-devices), while devices based on planar acceptor BTP-Br show significantly increased ΔVOC, nr of 0.335 V. The radiative VOC loss was also investigated to reveal other recombination loss pathways40.
As seen in Table 2, BTP-TBr-devices not only have a low ΔE3 (i.e., qΔVOC, nr) but also show the lowest ΔE2 (i.e., qVOC, SQ − qVOC, rad), therefore delivering the smallest energy loss (Eloss) of 0.553 eV while those for BTP-Br- and BTP-BO-devices being 0.668 and 0.573, respectively.Table 2VOC and energy losses for xylene-processed solar cells based on PTzBI-dF donorAcceptorEga (eV)EQEEL @JSCΔVOC, nrb (V)VOC, SQc (V)VOC, radd (V)ΔE1e (eV)ΔE2f (eV)ΔE3g (eV)Elossh (eV)BTP-Br1.4202.18 × 10−60.3351.1641.0870.2560.0770.3350.668BTP-BO1.4532.27 × 10−40.2161.1961.0960.2570.1000.2160.573BTP-TBr1.3971.28 × 10−40.2301.1441.0740.2530.0700.2300.553aEg is determined from one-step fitting of EQE spectra from Almora’s sigmoidal function.bΔVOC, nr (T) = − ( kBT/q) ln(EQEEL).cVOC, SQ is Shockley-Queisser limit of VOC.dVOC, rad = VOC, meas + ΔVOC,nr, where VOC, meas is the mesaured VOC.eΔE1 = Eg − qVOC, SQ.fΔE2 = q(VOC, SQ − VOC, rad).gΔE3 = qΔVOC, nr.hEloss = ΔE1 + ΔE2 + ΔE3 = Eg − qVOC, meas.
VOC and energy losses for xylene-processed solar cells based on PTzBI-dF donor
However, we note a broadened emission linewidth for the devices based on planar acceptors (Supplementary Fig.
The relative dielectric constants (εr) of acceptors and their blends were evaluated by capacitance–frequency (Cp–f) plots (Supplementary Fig. 16).
Thermal properties of acceptors
To evaluate the thermal tolerance of all five acceptors, glass transition temperature (Tg) was measured in film state by extracting the deviation metric from temperature-dependent absorption spectra (Supplementary Fig. 17).
By accumulating the square of optical density difference at each wavelength (see the details in Methods)42, the deviation metric for each acceptor film was obtained as a dependence on temperature.
This is further confirmed from grazing incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) of neat acceptors.
3Thermal properties of acceptors and long-term stability of solar cells.a Tg of acceptors as film state extracted from the deviation metric of absorption spectra under different temperatures.
b DSC thermograms for neat acceptors, obtained from the first heat cycle with a heating rate of 5 K min−1.
d Stability for conventional devices based on acceptors with different side-group hinderance.
Thermal properties of acceptors and long-term stability of solar cells.
a Tg of acceptors as film state extracted from the deviation metric of absorption spectra under different temperatures.
b DSC thermograms for neat acceptors, obtained from the first heat cycle with a heating rate of 5 K min−1.
d Stability for conventional devices based on acceptors with different side-group hinderance.
The side-group behavior of twisted acceptor BTP-TBr under thermal stress below Tg was investigated by temperature-dependent 1H NMR in deuterated benzene.
Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) for both neat acceptors and their blends were carried out to discover their thermal behaviors at higher temperatures.
To avoid the decomposition of acceptors in DSC traces, the temperature was set below the onset of weight loss determined from thermogravimetric analysis (TGA, Supplementary Fig. 21a).
The DSC curves of neat acceptors were depicted in Fig.
The other acceptors show only one endothermal peak attributed to the melting point (Tm).
The low Tc of BTP-H and the low ΔHm for BTP-Br suggest the planar acceptors are not conformationally stable against thermal stress.
The DSC results of blends agree well with those for neat acceptors with Tm slightly shifted (Supplementary Fig.
21b), demonstrating a similar thermal behavior of the acceptors before and after blended with PTzBI-dF.
Given the DSC of blends were prepared through scraping the dried blend films, the decreased ΔHm relative to that of neat acceptors should be due to the interactions between PTzBI-dF and acceptors.
For devices based on the twisted acceptors, especially BTP-TBr, the degraded performance is mainly due to the decay of FF, while the devices based on the planar acceptor (i.e., BTP-Br) show sharp decay of all three parameters during thermal aging (Supplementary Fig. 23).
26), which is impressive considering the less-robust normal structure, indicating a good tolerance of devices based on twisted acceptors under photo stress and electrical bias.
The increased energetic disorder in planar acceptor-based devices might be due to the formation of some trap states within the bandgap51.
The blending with PTzBI-dF does not significantly alter the molecular packing of acceptors as in neat condition (Supplementary Fig. 19).
5Molecular packing and morphology evolution upon thermal aging.Averaged curves of GIWAXS for blend films based on PTzBI-dF (D) and different acceptors (a).
In-plane intensity profiles of GISAXS for fresh and aged blend films based on BTP-Br (b) and BTP-TBr (c), where solid lines represent the fitting by hard sphere model; the aging induced changes in both intermixing domain size and pure acceptor domain size are shown for clarity.
Averaged curves of GIWAXS for blend films based on PTzBI-dF (D) and different acceptors (a).
In-plane intensity profiles of GISAXS for fresh and aged blend films based on BTP-Br (b) and BTP-TBr (c), where solid lines represent the fitting by hard sphere model; the aging induced changes in both intermixing domain size and pure acceptor domain size are shown for clarity.
Considering the peak in high-q region of OOP is an overlapping of signals from both donor and acceptor that cannot be deconvoluted, the much better π-π stacking of BTP-Br-blend might be partially derived from the inferior compatibility between PTzBI-dF and BTP-Br compared to that between PTzBI-dF and BTP-TBr, as revealed by the smaller interfacial energy γD-A (0.15 mN m−1) of the latter than that of 0.38 mN m−1 for the formers (see contact angle analysis in Supplementary Table 10).
These findings indicate a lower degree of molecular diffusion for BTP-TBr even under high thermal stress, which could be the combined results of large steric hinderance of BTP-TBr and good miscibility between BTP-TBr and polymer donor.
Raman spectra show no obvious changes in the characteristic peaks for blends after aging53,54, but the mapping of acceptor in blends reveal a homogeneous matrix with less obvious acceptor grains in aged BTP-TBr-blend, whereas slight gathering of acceptor is observed in some local regions for aged BTP-Br-blend (Supplementary Fig. 30–32).
34) along the IP direction by a classic model gives both the average acceptor domain size (2Rg-fractal) and the intermixing domain size (ξ)55.
For devices based on planar acceptors, the components in the mixed phase experienced a slight demixing and purification under thermal stress to form small-scale isolated acceptor domains56, due to the high diffusion ability (low Tg) and strong backbone interaction of these planar acceptors as well as relatively low miscibility with polymer donor.
Besides, the formation of isolated domains is evidenced by the increased bimolecular recombination coefficient for aged devices based on planar acceptors, which accounts for the decayed FF under thermal aging.
In contrast, devices based on twisted acceptors show obviously larger degree of intermixing in the mixed phase of active layer, because BTP-TBr has relatively higher Tg, weaker backbone stacking, bigger side-group steric hindrance, and better miscibility with polymer donor.
Owing to the narrow bandgap and low energy loss, the twisted acceptors perform well in xylene-processed solar cells, with the best acceptor delivering a PCE of 18.3%, among the highest PCE reported for non-halogenated solvent processed OPV.
Meantime, a decent thermal/photo stability is realized for the acceptors with large structural hinderance.
The synthetic details of dialdehyde intermediates were similar to that reported previously in our group58, while the synthetic procedures for the target non-fullerene acceptors were elaborated in the Supplementary Information.
After cooling, blends of PTzBI-dF:acceptor (1:1.2, wt:wt) in chloroform (donor concentration: 5.5 mg mL−1) or xylene (7.0 mg mL−1) with 0.3 vol% chloronaphthalene (CN) were spin-coated onto the substrates at ~750 rpm and thermal annealed at 100 oC for 10 min, giving an active layer thickness of ~100 nm.
The concentration of the acceptor is ~10 mg mL–1, and the temperature ranges from 30–72 oC with an interval of 6 oC.
where JSC is short circuit current, J0 is the reverse saturation current, nid is the diode ideal factor, J01 is the diffusion-induced reverse saturation current, Dp,n are the diffusivity of holes and electrons, respectively, τp,n are the carrier lifetime of holes and electrons, respectively, ND, A are the donor and acceptor concentrations, respectively, ni is the intrinsic carrier concentration, J02 is the recombination induced reverse saturation current, W is the depletion layer width, and τeff is the effective recombination lifetime, or directly measured lifetime.
Metallophthalocyanines (MPcs) with a lower band gap that have been widely used as electron donor material show reasonable ambipolar carrier-transporting properties for efficient charge transfer.
Moreover, these compounds have been reported to be among the promising electron acceptor materials in organic solar cells (OSCs).11
Organic photovoltaic devices are a combination of electron donor and acceptor materials, at the interface of which a dissociation of excitons occurs (bound electron–hole pairs, formed by the absorption of a photon in the organic layer).12 The small, macrocyclic, aromatic-copper phthalocyanine molecule (CuPc) has been shown to be a good donor layer for photovoltaic devices when combined with fullerene (C60) as an acceptor material.13 This architecture integrated the advantages of both the Schottky barrier and the donor–acceptor heterojunction in photovoltaic cells.
Indeed, the Schottky barrier can provide a high Voc and the donor–acceptor heterojunction can provide more dissociation sites, which allows obtaining more photocurrent.14
In the present paper, we report the study of the potentiality of palladium tetrakis (imidazole) phthalocyanine (PdPc(Imz)4) as a donor material for new applications in electronic and photoelectronic components in solar cells.
In addition, the value of the electrophilicity index (ω) suggests that the maximum flow of electrons between the donor and the acceptor is quite large.
A strategy for increasing the conversion efficiency of organic photovoltaics has been to increase the VOC by tuning the energy levels of donor and acceptor components.
Increasing the effective bandgap of the donor-acceptor blend has been achieved mostly by developing semiconducting polymers with lower HOMO and LUMO energy levels that match better with fullerene-based acceptors.
Studies have shown that charge transfer between the donor and acceptor can still occur with a relatively small energetic driving force56789.
In addition, however, it was proposed that low energy offset blends should have a new loss pathway resulting from charge recombination to the now energetically favorable triplet exciton states in the donor or acceptor1011121314.
In high energy offset polymer:fullerene blends where the intermolecular charge transfer (CT) states have a lower energy than the triplet exciton states, the triplet excitons that may normally form in the neat polymer by intersystem crossing are quenched due to the presence of the fullerene acceptors37383940.
The ODMR measurements performed at T = 5 K clearly demonstrate that triplet excitons are formed on donor and acceptor molecules in the neat materials and in blends.
With an excitation wavelength of 532 nm, singlet excitons (S1) are created on both PTB7 (donor) and PC71BM (acceptor) molecules.
Finally, electron back transfer (EBT) can occur from the 3CT state to the donor triplet state (TD).
We have determined that besides a donor-bound exciton (DBE) transition peaking at ~3.47 eV at 5 K, there are also defect related lines originating from SFs.
According to theory, the rate of energy transfer depends on the spacing distance d between dipoles (excitons) in the energy donor and energy acceptor materials according to the equation:3\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${{\rm{\Gamma }}}_{NRET}={{\rm{\Gamma }}}_{D}{[\frac{{R}_{0}}{d}]}^{n}$$\end{document}ΓNRET=ΓD[R0d]nHere, R 0 is the Förster critical distance and is defined as a separation radius between the energy acceptor-donor components for which the transfer rate is equal to the recombination rate Γ D of exciton in the energy donor in the absence of energy acceptor material3.
A thin film of the donor material (chloroaluminum phthalocyanine (ClAlPc)) is inserted between ClAlPc:C60 bulk heterojunction (BHJ) and C60 layer by glancing angle deposition.
Photovoltaic cells with metal phthalocyanine as the donor and fullerene as the acceptor have shown good performance and are long been regarded as an ideal candidate for studying the working mechanism of organic solar cell2,3.
As more and more novel donor/acceptor small molecules are designed and synthesized, a continuous enhancement of energy conversion efficiency is achieved due to broader optical absorption and more efficient charge transport in small molecule photovoltaic devices3–6.
The efforts to modify the device structure beyond PHJ create two kinds of novel donor/acceptor interface.
While still keeping two unmixed donor and acceptor regions, a rough interface between donor and acceptor formed by glancing angle deposition (GLAD) technique, improves the conversion efficiency significantly10,11.
Both efficient charge transport in pure donor/acceptor region and larger interface area for exciton dissociation are proposed as the benefits due to this rough and unmixed interface.
The other innovative structure is the molecular scale mixture of donor and acceptor, which is called bulk heterojunction (BHJ).
In small molecule solar cells, BHJ is usually sandwiched between a donor layer and an acceptor layer, which is called p-i-n structure.
For example, because Voc is generally believed to be limited by a voltage difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level of the acceptor, a larger Voc is hoped by employing novel donor-acceptor molecules with larger voltage difference12.
It is well known that FF is easily influenced by some intrinsic factors in BHJ, e.g., randomly mixed morphology, unbalanced mobility of donor and acceptor, and bimolecular recombination15.
That is to say, if a larger Voc is obtained by using novel donor and acceptor molecules with more optimal energy level offset, the driving force for charge generation in BHJ will be weakened inevitably16,17.
We change the interface between BHJ (i) and the acceptor layer (n) in common p-i-n structure and produce a novel p-i-p-n structure.
A thin donor layer is intentionally deposited behind the BHJ layer as the second p layer, resulting in an extra PHJ (p-n).
Chloroaluminum phthalocyanine (ClAlPc), a kind of metal phthalocyanine with optical absorption in near-infrared band18, is used as the donor in this work.
ClAlPc (Yannuo Chem., purity 99%) is used as the donor material.
Fullerene C60 (Yannuo Chem., purity 99%) is used as the acceptor material.
The donor:accepter (D/A) mixtures are all in weight ratio 1:1.
It has been reported that the rough interface can significantly increase the interfacial area between donor and acceptor, and therefore, improve the efficiency10,11.
Some studies have revealed a small driving force in BHJ by carefully selecting donor/acceptor organic molecules33,34.
Very efficient TTA UC was observed with the phosphorus corroles as triplet photosensitizers and perylene as the triplet acceptor, with upconversion quantum yields of up to ΦUC = 38.9% (a factor of 2 was used in the equation) and a very large anti-Stokes effect of 0.5 eV.
Higher energy photons are generated from the absorption of lower energy light by an efficient triplet sensitizer through sequential, highly allowed one-photon absorption, subsequent intersystem crossing (ISC) and intermolecular triplet–triplet energy transfer (TTET) to the energy acceptor, and the population of the S1 state of the triplet acceptor by the TTA process.1,2,22,23 In essence, the energy stored in two sensitized triplet molecules is combined to produce one higher energy singlet state and a corresponding ground-state species.
The motivation for investigating photo-driven intermolecular electron transfer between the corroles and a sacrificial electron donor (triethylamine, Et3N) was to gain fundamental information that is relevant for potential applications of the corroles as photocatalysts.
Nitridoosmium(vi) and oxorhenium(v) corroles were previously reported for TTA upconversion, with SG 5 (diisobutyl 3,9-perylenedicarboxylate) as the triplet acceptor, but the upconversion quantum yields were very low: 0.16%–2.0%.32,46 Based on the triplet state energy level of the corroles (approximated as 1.56 eV, by the phosphorescence emission of 1PF2-I4), perylene was selected as the triplet acceptor and the emitter (with a T1 state energy level of 1.54 eV).77 For 1PF2-I4, no emission was observed upon 589 nm cw laser excitation (Fig.
Py (perylene) was the acceptor.
The intermolecular triplet state energy transfer between the phosphorus corrole photosensitizers and the triplet energy acceptor perylene was also studied by nanosecond transient absorption spectroscopy, focusing on the quenched triplet state lifetime in the presence of increasing amounts of perylene (Fig.
In toluene, η = 5.9 × 10–4 Pa s; T = 293.15 K; Rf (1PF2) = Rf (1PF2) = Rf (1PF2-I4) = Rf (2PF2-I3) = Rf (2PF2-I4) = 5.01 × 10–10 m; Df is for the energy donor, Df = 5.54 × 10–6 cm2 s–1 for all three compounds, Dq is for the quencher molecules.
Properly tuned photo-excited corroles react with both reductive and oxidative quenchers, as exemplified by their reactions with a frequently used sacrificial electron donor (triethylamine) and the formation of superoxide radical anions (O2–˙), respectively.
Efficient triplet–triplet annihilation upconversion was observed with the phosphorus corroles as triplet photosensitizers and perylene as the triplet acceptor.
Et3N was used as the sacrificial electron donor and corrole was used as the electron acceptor.
The mixed solution of the triplet photosensitizers and the triplet acceptors was degassed with N2 for at least 15 min before the upconversion experiments.
However, an unexpected behaviour is observed when the two polymers are used as a donor material, in combination with PC61BM as acceptor, in bulk heterojunction solar cells.
The lower performance is presumably attributed to the limited solubility of the PTzBDT-1 in organic solvents resulting in enhanced aggregation and poor intermixing with the acceptor material in the active layer.
The active layer consists of a blend of π-conjugated polymer (electron donor) and fullerene derivative (electron acceptor) sandwiched between two electrodes (anode and cathode) [1–4].
Despite the different aspects, the properties of the donor polymers remain one of the most important factors on the overall performance of a BHJ device.
Specifically, an ideal donor polymer is usually designed to have sufficient solubility in common organic solvents, good stability in air, a suitable bandgap for an effective light harvesting, proper charge transport properties, suitable HOMO and LUMO energy levels compatible with the acceptor material [13] and an excellent film-forming capability.
Among these donor polymers, copolymers based on widely known structural units such as benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b']dithiophene (BDT) and 5,6-difluoro-2H-benzo[d][1,2,3]triazole (Tz) have attracted much attention and effectively employed in BHJ PSCs due to their intrinsic advantages, potentials and versatility [14–15].
Here we report the synthesis and characterization of two novel donor polymers, PTzBDT-1 and PTzBDT-2 (Scheme 1), based on Tz and BDT moieties.
Solution-processed BHJ PSCs using PTzBDT-1 or PTzBDT-2 as electron-donor materials and PC61BM as electron-acceptor counterpart were fabricated, optimized, and fully characterized.
A set of BHJ solar cells, using PTzBDT-1 and PTzBDT-2 as donors and PC61BM as an acceptor counterpart, were fabricated and characterized in order to evaluate the impact of the alkyl substitution on the resulting photovoltaic performance.
By varying the amount of the donor content in the BHJ blends, a reduction of the PCEs was observed (Table 3).
PV characteristics of optimized PTzBDT-1:PC61BM and PTzBDT-2:PC61BM BHJ devices using different donor:acceptor ratios and processing conditions.
This difference, despite the deeper electrochemically derived HOMO energy levels of PTzBDT-1 (Table 1), could be ascribed to the impact of the alkyl substitution of the thiophene ring (side group) on the chemico-physical (e.g., solubility) and film-forming properties of the corresponding polymer based blend, likely influencing the donor:acceptor phase segregation, molecular aggregation/distances and interfacial energetics, all factors strongly related to the resulting VOC [21].
In particular, despite a comparable shape, the intensity of the absorption profiles, related to the donor content in the blend and responsible for the light harvesting and exciton generation, are significantly different reflecting the trend of the generated photocurrents.
These results suggest that, beside structural factors, other fundamental aspects such as the slightly better solubility of PTzBDT-2 (double alkyl substitution on the thiophene ring) in comparison to PTzBDT-1, not only allows a higher donor content in the blend (enhanced light absorption) but also seems to be crucial in terms of precipitation/segregation kinetics during the deposition/drying process of the active blend, strongly influencing the self-organization, the quality and thus the morphological features of the resulting BHJ film (see below).
In particular, the topographic image of the 1:2 (wt/wt) PTzBDT-1:PC61BM film (Figure 5A) is characterized by an almost featureless surface with randomly oriented and poorly defined domains suggesting a suboptimal phase segregation of the donor:acceptor blend.
Diversely, the AFM image of 1:1 (wt/wt) PTzBDT-2:PC61BM blend (Figure 5B) seems to be based on more structured and defined domains indicating a higher donor:acceptor intermixing combined with finely ordered and aggregated polymeric domains, in perfect agreement with the improved photovoltaic performance.
The HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the polymers and electron acceptors were calculated from the peak values of the third scans by setting the oxidative peak potential of Fc/Fc+ vs the normal-hydrogen electrode (NHE) to 0.630 V and the NHE vs the vacuum level to 4.5 V [27].
The spherical radii of the electron donor rD and acceptor rA are determined from the DFT calculations to be 5.9 Å for the SubPc-monomer (SubPcM), 9.3 Å for the SubPc-fused dimer (SubPcD), 4.3 Å for C60, and 4.7 Å for C70.
The center-to-center electron donor–acceptor distance rDA = 11.7 Å in syn-SubPc 1 were calculated as a mean value from the two conformers.
In syn-SubPc 1–C60/syn-SubPc 1–C70, the mean electron donor–acceptor distances (rDA) are 5.7 and 6.0 Å, respectively.
Notably, C60 is a poorer electron acceptor than dimer-SubPc 2.
The proximity of C60 and the monomer-subunit and, in turn, the gain in Coulomb energy due to the decrease in the electron donor–acceptor distance constitute the driving force for the charge shift process.
The electron donor polymer (PTB7) and electron acceptor material (PC71BM, >99%) were purchased from 1-material (Tokyo, Japan) and Solenne (Groningen, the Netherlands), respectively.
To form the photoactive layer, PTB7, as an electron donor material, and PC71BM, as an electron acceptor material, were used, dissolved in 1 mL of o-dichlorobenzene (DCB) at a weight ratio of 1:1.5 (10 mg:15 mg).
Figure 3d,e shows the chemical structures of the electron donor material and the electron acceptor material used in this study, respectively.
Donor-acceptor blended bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic photovoltaic devices (OPVs) are considered promising next generation solar cells due to their low-cost, light weight, flexibility, and solution processability123.
Therefore, numerous researches have endeavored to enhance the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of the devices by incorporating methods such as introducing newly designed and synthesized donor or acceptor molecules, embedding metal nanoparticles into organic layers, modifying the bimolecular morphology, or introducing interlayer engineering to the electron or hole extraction layer67891011.
Photoactive materials were chosen consisting of poly[(4,8-bis-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-benzo(1,2-b:4,5-b′)dithiophene)-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[(3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2,6-diyl)] (PTB7) and poly [4,8-bis[(5-2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-alt-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene-2-carboxylate] (PTB7-Th) as donors, and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid (PC71BM) as an acceptor.
We measured a control device consisting of a single-junction donor material (PTB7 or PTB7-Th): acceptor (PC71BM) (1:1.7 wt%) blend in the conventional OSCs (21.3 mg mL−1) in mixed solvent of chlorobenzene (CB):1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) (97:3 vol%) [26,30,31].
To assess the synergistic effect of the MoS2 QDs as the HTL, the 5- and 10-nanometer-sized MoS2 QDs with mono-/few-layer thicknesses were deposited on the PEDOT:PSS/ITO substrate and the device performance was evaluated using the optimized donors (PTB7 or PTB7-Th):acceptor (PC71BM) active materials.
In non-fullerene organic solar cells, the long-range structure ordering induced by end-group π–π stacking of fused-ring non-fullerene acceptors is considered as the critical factor in realizing efficient charge transport and high power conversion efficiency.
Here, we demonstrate that side-chain engineering of non-fullerene acceptors could drive the fused-ring backbone assembly from a π–π stacking mode to an intermixed packing mode, and to a non-stacking mode to refine its solid-state properties.
Our observations open a new avenue in material design that endows better photovoltaic performance.Non-fullerene acceptors are crucial for realising efficient charge transport and high power conversion in organic solar cells, yet the relationship of molecular packing and carrier transport is not well-understood.
Non-fullerene small molecule acceptors (NFAs) that better harness long wavelength radiation and reduce unfavorable interfacial electron coupling lead to fundamental breakthrough in organic solar cells (OSCs) with a remarkable power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 18%1–8.
Overall, the three blends show well-developed polymer and acceptor crystalline features, which shape the phase separation.
c, d, e Semi-logarithmic plots of normalized EL (red line), measured EQE (olive line) and EQE calculated by Fourier-transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS) (orange dots) as a function of energy for devices based on PBT1-C and different acceptors.
f Transient absorption kinetics of excitons and charges in the blends, after the selective excitation of the corresponding acceptor phases at 710 nm at pump fluences of 13 µJ/cm2, 4.7 µJ/cm2 and 4.7 µJ/cm2 respectively.
The plots are produced via bilinear decomposition of the TA surfaces using spectral mask of excitons from relevant neat acceptor films (Supplementary Fig.
c, d, e Semi-logarithmic plots of normalized EL (red line), measured EQE (olive line) and EQE calculated by Fourier-transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS) (orange dots) as a function of energy for devices based on PBT1-C and different acceptors.
f Transient absorption kinetics of excitons and charges in the blends, after the selective excitation of the corresponding acceptor phases at 710 nm at pump fluences of 13 µJ/cm2, 4.7 µJ/cm2 and 4.7 µJ/cm2 respectively.
The plots are produced via bilinear decomposition of the TA surfaces using spectral mask of excitons from relevant neat acceptor films (Supplementary Fig.
These observations agree with our previous study of NFA blends42–44, and imply the NFA excitons can efficiently transport cross to the acceptor phase domain in the BHJ.
The polymer donor PBT1-C was synthesized via referencing the reported literature31.
The method includes the bilinear decomposition of the blend TA surfaces by applying spectral masks of excitons from the pristine acceptor films (Supplementary Fig.
Power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) have exceeded 19% in single-junction OSCs based on conjugated polymers as electron donor materials in recent years, thanks to the design of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) and device optimization [1,2,3,4,5].
In the past decade, huge numbers of conjugated small molecular donors based on the BDT unit have been developed, focusing on lateral side chain engineering, backbone engineering (using different building blocks), and end-group acceptor engineering using different acceptor moieties containing heteroatoms (such as F, O, CN, etc.).
The number of BDT research articles published in the organic semiconductor field since 2011 (through the keyword “benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT)” on the Web of Science) and a brief timeline of the development of BDT donor-based ASM OSCs presented in Figure 1.
designed and reported three new small molecules based on different side chains on the BDT central donor unit, named TB-BDT6T, ST-BDT6T, and TT-BDT6T.
synthesized and reported a new two-dimensional (2D) conjugated small molecule, named DCA3TBDTP, with an alkoxyphenyl-substituted BDT unit as the central donor and octyl cyanoacetate as the acceptor unit.
The conjugated lateral alkoxylphenyl group was introduced as a weak electron donor, which lowered the HOMO level and resulted in a higher Voc.
reported three A-π-D-π-A configurations of BDT-based molecules, SMDI, SMD2, and SMD3, by using a symmetry-breaking strategy to achieve ideal phase separation between donor/acceptor by reducing self-aggregation.
The 2D aromatic benzene-alkoxyl and thiophene-alkylthiol as lateral side chains on the BDT core and 3-isooctyl rhodanine as the terminal group in SMD3 showed more solar absorption and suitable phase separation properties than SMDI and SMD2, which resulted in the highest PCE of 4.67% among the three when blended with PC71BM acceptor [23].
Two novel donors were synthesized and reported as BTEC-1F and BTEC-2F, which were derived from the small molecule DCAO3TBDTT.
Using Y6 as the non-fullerene acceptor (NFA), the device based on difluorinated BTEC-2F achieved a higher efficiency of 13.34% [24].
Later, the same group reported a novel BDT-based donor, BT-2F, which was derived from their previously reported BTEC-2F (by changing the positions and the length of alkyls on terthiophene π-bridges) and blended with NFA acceptor Y6 or N3.
The mid-length alkylthio-substituted donor SM8 achieved a PCE of 13.11% due to more compatible blend miscibility without much loss in charge carrier transport as compared to the shorter and longer lengths of alkylthio contained in SM4 and SM12, respectively [26].
reported two small molecule donors, namely BT-RO-Cl and BT-REH-Cl, with simple terminal alkyl side chain engineering in alkylcyanoacetate to fine-tune the morphology towards high performance.
The favorable molecular stacking in blend films with face-on and edge-on combinations with Y6 acceptor provided a fluent 3D transport channel.
designed a novel BDT-based molecule, BDTF-CA, with a deep HOMO level and fabricated with the narrow bandgap NFA of IDIC with two or four fluorine atoms at the end group acceptor of IDIC.
developed a novel small molecular donor, SM-Cl, and the device performance was 7.73% in a binary system with an IDIC acceptor.
The ternary device using 10% SM-Cl in SM: IDIC notably increased the PCE to 10.29% (the SM: IDIC PCE is 9.39%) due to the formation of an alloy state which effectively down-shifted the HOMO level of the donor and thus enhanced the Voc [30].
The PCEs achieved 8.12%, 8.02%, and 6.7% for DR3TBDTT, DR3TBD2T, and DR3TBDTT-HD, respectively, with donors: PC71BM weight ratio of 1:0.8 w/w and 0.2 mg/mL of PDMS in the active layer.
reported a new small molecule, named BDTT-S-TR, based on an alkylthio-thienyl-conjugated side chain on the BDT central donor unit.
The improved crystallinity and matching energy levels of BTR-Cl with Y6 acceptor yielded an efficient PCE of 13.61% [38] Tang et al.
reported a highly efficient small molecular donor, BTR-Cl, blended with small molecule acceptor, Y6.
The 5 wt% of PC71BM in the active layer blend of BTR-Cl: Y6, fullerene had good miscibility in both donor BTR-Cl as well as acceptor Y6, resulting in reduced bimolecular recombination and thus improved fill factor (77.11%), which demonstrated a record PCE of 15.34% for all-small-molecule organic solar cells [13].
Both molecules showed a complementary absorption with common acceptors such as PC71BM and IDIC.
The optimized device based on DRBDT-TVT showed a reasonable efficiency of 6.87% with the PC71BM acceptor [40].
Later, in 2021, the photovoltaic properties of BTR, BTR-TE, and BTR-TIPS were further increased by blending with Y6 NFA acceptor and in ternary devices.
By using PC71BM and NITI non-fullerene acceptor in ternary device with BTR donor, Zhou et al.
suggested synergistically hierarchical morphology which may be reduce the energy loss and enhanced the charge transport through cascade energy level and thus improved the PCE to 13.63% as compared to binary-blend PCEs either with PC71BM (9.03%) or NITI acceptor (6.82%) [45].
designed and reported the small donor molecule, BSFTR, and showed that their blend film possessed proper crystallinity, phase separation, and charge transportation, and matched the energy level with Y6 acceptor, resulting in an efficient PCE of 13.69% [46].
To understand the structure–performance relationship with an NFA acceptor, two isomeric acceptors, NBDTP-Fout and NBDTP-Fin, with diverted oxygen position in the benzodi(thienopyran) (BDTP) core were synthesized and fabricated with the molecular donor BDT3TR-SF.
designed a 2D conjugated small-molecule donor (B1) with a phenyl-substituted BDT central building block, which has a larger rotational barrier, and increased molecular conformation stability, crystallinity, and notably improved PCE compared to BTR with thiophene substitution.
B1 is affected and induced from an edge on to a face-on orientation by the acceptor, BO-4Cl, and blend morphology is synergistically optimized.
fine-tuned the B1 molecule and reported two new donors, SM-BF1 and SM-BF2, by placing the fluorine atom in the ortho and meta positions.
The S35−2Si:Y6 blend showed pure face-on orientation, indicating quite different donor: acceptor intermolecular interactions, and obtained an efficient PCE of 13.5% due to more balanced charge transport [48].
reported two BDT-based molecules, C-F and C-2F, using side chain engineering with a symmetrically difluorinated benzene ring on the BDT donor core.
Owing to decent BHJ morphology, the HD-1 based molecule achieved a champion device efficiency of 17.19% with the BTP-eC9 acceptor, which is currently one of the highest PCEs among SM-OSCs [52].
The fabricated device with a PC71BM acceptor revealed a PCE of 7.2%.
designed and reported two new small molecular donors, D(T3-DCRD)-BDT and D(T3-DCRD)-BDTT.
These molecules are based on 2-(1,1-dicyanomethylene) rhodanine (DCRD) as an electron withdrawing end-group into BDT- and BDTT-central donor units, respectively.
The efficiency of 1.10% for D (T3-DCRD)-BDT and 1.94% for D (T3-DCRD)-BDTT was achieved with the PC61BM acceptor.
reported two new molecules, DRT3-BDT and DTT3-BDT, constructed with rhodamine-based different acceptor units.
designed and reported two new small molecules: DOO3OTTBDT and DOP3HTTBDT (by shortening alkyl chains that are attached to π-conjugated bridge end-capped acceptors).
The effective molecular packing and higher crystallinity with the addition of 0.25% (v/v DIO) in donors: PC71BM blend achieved a high PCE of 5.64% and 5.26% for DOP3HTTBDT and DOO3OTTBDT, respectively [56].
reported three small molecules, named BTID-0F, BTID-1F, and BTID-2F, that contained gradient-electron density end acceptors substituted with various fluorine atoms.
The efficiencies for the inverted devices were 8.30%, 10.4%, and 11.3% for BTID-0F, BTID-1F, and BTID-2F, respectively, with the PC71BM acceptor.
Similarly, the same group reported two molecules, 2F-C4C6 and 2F-C6C8, and the OSC devices with IDIC acceptor revealed an efficiency of 6.41% and 8.23%, respectively.
The AFM images showed relatively higher crystallinity in the 2F-C4C6 donor owing to its smaller alkyl side chains and thus earlier crystallization, which ultimately led to poor performance [59].
A new molecule named V-BDT in the A-π-D-π-A configuration, based on a vinazene end group acceptor, was reported by Chen et al., and the device obtained a PCE of 3.73% after thermal annealing for 10 min.
Among the three, the BDT-1 with an N-alkylthiazolonethione end group showed the highest efficiency of 5.46% with a fullerene acceptor due to its strongest electron-withdrawing ability and lowest bandgap.
synthesized a new medium-bandgap BDT-based donor molecule, DR3TBDTT-S-E, and incorporated it into two types of ternary solar cells with two donors and one acceptor (PC71BM/IDIC).
The DR3TBDTT-S-E donor molecule in the DCAO3TBDTT: IDIC host blend showed a mixed face-on and edge-on orientation, creating 3D charge pathways that assisted the charge transportation and thus increased the PCE from 9.49% to 10.04% [63].
synthesized two novel BDT-based molecules using two different end group acceptors, dicyanovinyl and n-butyl cyanoacetate, for BDT-2T-DCV-Me and BDT-2T-CNAB, respectively.
To investigate the effect of the combination between a strong donor and strong acceptor, a new BDT-based donor molecule, BDT-HTOX was synthesized by Sylvianti et al.
using phenylisoxazol (OX) as an acceptor.
In the inverted configuration using the PC71BM acceptor, the PCE obtained 0.80% [65].
reported BDT-based molecules, named BDT-TBT and BDT-THTBT, using benzothidiazole as the acceptor moiety.
developed new BDT-based molecules, named SD1, SD2 and SD3, by combining the modification in the side chains in the π-bridge with different end group acceptors.
designed and reported four small donor molecules: D1 and D2, with hexylthienyl, and DO1 and DO2, with 2-ethylhexyloxy side chains, on the BDT unit (Figure 5a).
The PCEs of the OSCs based on the donors and PC70BM acceptor were 6.75%, 5.67%, 5.11%, and 4.15% (Table 3) for D2, D1, DO2, and DO2, respectively.
synthesized and reported a series of small molecules based on BDTT as the central donor and electron-deficient quinoidal methyldioxocyano-pyridine (MDP) by targeting oligothiophene (0T–5T) π-bridges on its various positions.
The good crystallinity, edge-on molecular packing, and high hole mobility resulted in an efficient PCE of 7.4% with the PC71BM acceptor without any post-treatment [70].
The PCEs of optimized devices for BDTTID and BDT3TID blends with PC70BM acceptor achieved 5.54% and 4.74%, respectively.
More importantly, BDT(ThBTTh)2 exhibited a significantly ordered crystalline structure, especially in the blend film with PC61BM acceptor, having a considerably larger hole mobility and resulting in a PCE of 4.53% for BDT(ThBTTh)2 compared to 1.58% for BDT(BTTh2)2 [73].
reported two BDT-based donors: SM-BT-2OR with an alkoxy side chain and SM-BT-2F with a fluorine atom substitution at the benzothiadiazole (BT) acceptor.
The as-cast OSC devices with IDIC acceptor showed an efficiency of 2.33% and 2.76% for SMBT-2OR and SM-BT-2F, respectively.
The optimized device with PC71BM acceptor showed a reasonable efficiency of 4.37% [76].
Two new molecules, b-SM1 and b-SM2, were synthesized with the BDT core linked with a phenothiazine (PTZ) π (donor) unit and 1,3–indanedione and malononitrile end group units, respectively.
The device based on BDT(TVT-SR)2 with an IDIC acceptor revealed a significant PCE of 11.1% after thermal annealing due to improvements in film morphology, appropriate phase separation, and charge transport properties [79].
The dual electron-accepting units provided the SBDT-BDD with complementary absorption and a suitable energy level with the fused-ring electron acceptor IDIC, leading to an efficient PCE of 9.2%.
Moreover, the SBDT-BDD was further investigated in ternary devices using the PC71BM acceptor and showed an outstanding efficiency of 10.9% owing to ideal film morphology, efficient charge separation, and suppressed charge recombination [80].
synthesized two novel molecules, BDTTNTTR and BDTSTNTTR, by using naphtho[1,2-c:5,6-c]bis[1,2,5]thiadiazole (NT) as the second internal acceptor, which displayed π-bridge with terthiophenes on both sides and 3-ethylrhodanine end-group acceptor unit.
designed and reported two novel 2D BDT and 1D BDT donor molecules, H11 and H12, respectively.
To extend the conjugation length, absorption profile, and electron-accepting profile, two electron acceptor units, fluorobenzotriazole as the internal acceptor between thiophene on both sides and alkyl cyanoacetate as the end-group acceptor, were incorporated into both molecules.
Based on their previous work, the same group reported two new molecular donors, H13 and H14, fine-tuned by fluorine and chlorine substitution of the original donor molecule H11, respectively.
The chlorinated H14 molecule exhibited a higher degree of crystallinity, smaller π-π distortion, and nanomorphology, which enabled the authors to generate and collect the charge more effectively, and improved open-circuit voltage, thus showing an efficient PCE of 12.1% with IDIC-4F acceptor compared to 10.3% for H13 [83].
reported two new BDT-based donor molecules BDT(TTzT)2 and BDT(TTz2T)2 in a D2-A-D1-A-D2-type configuration using tetrazine(Tz) as an electron acceptor end-group, and bithiophene or terthiophene as the end donor units.
The introduction of the tetrazine acceptor unit effectively reduced the HOMO energy level of both molecules, and after the optimization with DIO, the device showed an efficiency of 5.01% and 5.29% for BDT(TTzT)2 and BDT(TTz2T)2, respectively [84].
reported two new molecules, BDTQBDT(EH) and BDTQ-BDT(OC), using 2,3-didodecyl-6,7-difluoro-5,8-di(thiophen-2-yl) quinoxaline (DTQ) as the electron acceptor unit.
reported a new A-π-D-π-A0type molecule, BBDDR, based on the central BDT donor core, benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD), together with two thiophene units as the π-bridge, and rhodanine as the electron-accepting end group.
A new planar D2-A-D1-A-D2-type structure, BDT-BTF, containing fluorinated benzothiadiazole (BTF) as an electron acceptor unit and hexyl dithiophene as an end group, was reported by Wang et al.
and used in OSCs with the PC71BM acceptor.
Benefiting from its strong crystallinity and coplanarity, BDT-BTF showed a high hole mobility in blend film and revealed an efficiency of 5.88% with a very low content of PC71BM acceptor [90].
Similarly, the same group modified their previously reported BDT-BTF molecule by replacing BTF with a [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-c]pyridine (PTz) acceptor moiety to enhance the electron-withdrawing ability and film morphology.
The new BDTDPTz molecule showed better absorption, lower HOMO energy level, better film quality, and strong crystallinity compared to BDT-BTF and thus revealed a PCE of 6.28% with the PC71BM acceptor [91].
synthesized a BDT-based new donor, B2TPR, by using thiophene-(p-ethylhexyloxy benzene)-thiophene as the π-bridge and methyl rhodanine as an acceptor.
designed and reported two new molecules, BTRO (through incorporation of rhodamine and 2-alkyl acetate together as an end-group) and BTCN (using alkyl cyanoacetate acceptor only).
In comparison to BTRO, BTCN had a wider bandgap; however, BTCN exhibited a higher and balanced carrier mobility, a higher extinction coefficient, and better complementary light absorption with the IDIC-4F acceptor, and thus led to an efficiency of 4.08% [93].
A new BDT-based donor, ECTBD, was developed and used as a third component in the PM6:Y6 blend and revealed an efficient efficiency of 16.51%, which was much higher than ECTBD: Y6 (1.58%).
In 2021, two new BDT-based A−π−D−π−A configurations, BER6 and BECN, consisting of diester-terthiophene as a π-bridged unit and alkyl rhodanine or alkyl cyanoacetate as a terminal electron-acceptor unit, were designed and reported.
Two new small molecules with a central BDT donor, G17 and G19, using cyclopentadithiophene (CPDT) and dithienosilole (DTS) as the π donor moieties, respectively, were synthesized and reported.
reported two novel molecules: SM-BDT using a BDT central donor and SM-DTBDT using dithieno benzodithiophene (DTBDT) central donor core unit.
The devices optimized with a Y8 acceptor revealed a reasonable PCE of 12.45% and 10.68% for SM-BDT and SM-DTBDT, respectively.
To investigate the effects of the number of BDT central donors and their intermolecular interaction between BDT units, bulk morphology, exciton diffusion, and charge transport properties, Lee et al.
first demonstrated a series of BDT-based small-molecule donors (BDT1, BDT2, and BDT3) bearing 1–3 BDT units (Figure 6a).
designed and reported two isomeric BDT-based molecules, BDTx-2TVTDPP and BDTy-2TVTDPP, by using thienylenevinylene-thiophene (TVT) and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as a π-bridge and acceptor, respectively.
The one-sided DPP acceptor small molecule (Figure 7), aBDT, resulted in low conjugation length, increased π–π length, a high reorganization energy, and low hole mobility, and thus resulted in a poor efficiency of 0.4%, whereas the addition of a second DPP unit in the BDT increased the molecular planarity, decreased reorganization energy, and improved hole mobility over aBDT and showed a reasonable PCE of 3.6% [101].
A series of molecules with BODIPY linked through several donor units, such as fluorene, carbazole, benzodithiophene, and phenothiazine, namely F-BDP, C-BDP, BBDP, and P-BDP, respectively, were designed and reported.
reported two new BDT-based molecules, PH and PF2, using diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as an electron acceptor group but with or without fluorination in lateral BDT side chains.
Ternary OSCs with PC61BM acceptor showed that an electronical alloy formed after mixing with both donors and increased the PCE from the optimized binary blend (PF2: PC61BM) 4.26% to 4.90% (PH:PF2: PC61BM) [103].
synthesized a series of alkylthienyl-substituted BDT trimers, named DRTB-T-CX, which differed in acceptor end-group alkyl chains.
The face-on orientation was proficient at enhancing the π–π stacking and charge mobilities; thus, the DRTB-T-C4 with IT-4F acceptor film revealed an efficiency of 11.24% and retained a sufficient PCE of 10% even at a high active layer thickness of 300 nm [104].
reported two BDT-based donors: DRTB-O and DRTB-T.
Moreover, along with the IDIC acceptor, the difference in efficiency observed was very high, and DRTB-T showed a remarkably higher PCE of 9.06% compared to DRTB-O (0.15%).
The poor efficiency in the DRTB-O system was due to large aggregation and strong phase separation between the donor and acceptor, which further prevented the formation of a charge transport channel.
By blending with the NFA acceptor, F-2Cl, the optimized device gave a reasonable PCE of 7.66% with a high Voc of 1.07 V [106].
reported a novel type of BDT molecules, BDT(DPP-8-BTI)2, and BDT(DPP-9-BTI)2 using benzo[4,5]thieno[2,3-b]indole (BTI) as the end-group donor with a different substitution position.
The PCEs of 4.80% and 3.52% were obtained in the BDT(DPP-8-BTI)2 and BDT(DPP-9-BTI)2, respectively, with the PC71BM acceptor [107].
A new BDT-based molecule, SeBDT-DPP, used diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as the end-group acceptor and a selenophene-based lateral side group incorporated into the core BDT.
The BDT(DPP)4 donor utilized in OPV and a reasonable PCE of 3.9% and 2.5% were achieved when blended with C8-ITIC and PC71BM, respectively [109].
Two new BDT-based molecules, M1 and M2, were designed and reported using difluoro-quinoxaline as an electron acceptor and thiophene as a π-bridge.
reported two new BDT molecules using 3-ethyl rhodamine as the end-group acceptor, namely c-SM1 and c-SM2, with one and two central BDT cores, respectively.
Porphyrin and their derivatives have fascinated OPVs as either donors or acceptors owing to their similar properties to chlorophylls, as natural light harvesters in photosynthesis.
The solar cell devices with IDIC acceptor showed a PCE of 7.46% for C8TEBDT-2P and 2.68% for C8TBDT-2P.
Two BDT-based new donor molecules, BDT-Qx and BDT-T-Qx, using quinoxaline derivative (Qx) as an acceptor end-group, were designed and reported.
A new D-A-D-A-D-type molecule, 5BDTBDD using benzo [1,2-c:4,5-c’] dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD) as an electron acceptor unit was designed and compared with a D-A-D-type molecule, 3BDTBDD (with a BDD central core acceptor and BDT donor end).
More recently, two A-π-D-π-A-type molecules, 3BDT-4 and 3BDT-5, with a BDT trimer (3BDT) as the central core electron donor unit and different electron-withdrawing end groups of 3-hexylrhodanine (3BDT-4) and 2-ethylhexyl cyanoacetate (3BDT-5), were synthesized and reported with a Y6 NFA acceptor.
synthesized and reported a D-A-D-A-D-type donor molecule consisting of alternating BDT units with a 5,6-difl uorobenzo[c][1,2,5] thiadiazole (dFBT) acceptor unit, namely O-BDTdFBT, and applied in OSCs using PC71BM acceptor.
Two new BDT-based donors, BDT-O-DPP and BDT-PO-DPP, were reported by using alkoxy and alkoxyphenyl lateral substitution on the central core BDT, respectively.
Due to an increase in the torsion angle of the side chain and electronic delocalization in alkoxyphenyl substituted BDT-PO-DPP, the hole mobility was improved and resulted in a PCE of 5.63% compared to the alkoxy substituted BDT-O-DPP (PCE 4.28%) with the PC61BM acceptor [118].
reported four novel SMs, BDT(DPP)2, BDTT(DPP)2, BDT(TPD-DPP)2, and BDTT(TPD-DPP)2, using diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as an acceptor in the former two molecules and additional thieno [3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6-dione (TPD) as dual acceptor units in the latter two molecules.
The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images showed that the BDTT(TPD-DPP)2 had better miscibility and smaller phase separation in the acceptor blend and that their blend film formed a continuous interpenetrating network, which ultimately enhanced the exciton diffusion and charge separation [120].
developed four BDT-based novel molecules, TBCA-CX (X = 2, 4, 6, and 8), with the same conjugated structure, but with variation in their terminal alkyl chains, and fabricated the OSCs with IT-4F acceptor.
The more compact molecular packing and favorable face-to-face orientation at the donor/acceptor interfaces observed in the TBCA-C4: IT-4F blend increased the exciton dissociation efficiency and resulted in the best PCE of 9.21%, while its analogs exhibited less than 8% efficiency [121].
reported two novel star-shaped BDT-based molecules, BDT-3Th and BDT-4Th, using alkyl cyanoacetate end-group acceptor.
The OSC devices were fabricated with a Y6 acceptor and obtained the PCEs of 3.78% and 5.83% for BDT-3Th and BDT-4Th, respectively.
After designing the suitable small molecular donors, the next most important aspect of an OSC is the packing of molecules within neat donor and acceptor phases, and their domain sizes should be confined to nearly 30 nm to ensure sufficient exciton diffusion to the donor/acceptor interface for the subsequent exciton dissociation [12,24,26,39].
The first example is DCAO3TBDTT and its analogous molecules, BTEC-1F and BTEC-2F with Y6 acceptor [24].
Replacing the hexyl side chains in the thienyl lateral side group of BTR with chlorine atoms, the BTR-Cl retained the liquid crystalline property with high crystallinity and the device with Y6 acceptor formed a more textured surface, with wrinkle-like microstructures, and a well-balanced phase separation and optimal film morphology were obtained and yielded a higher efficiency of 13.67% compared with the control device, BTR (10.67%) (Figure 10A–H) [38].
The AFM images showed that both molecules had nearly the same RMS values as the N3 acceptor blends (Figure 12a,b) but the GIWAXS measurement (Figure 12c–f) for C-2F:N3 film indicated its larger crystal grain size and CCL compared to C-F:N3 film, facilitating the charge transport three-dimensionally and thus increasing the PCE from 7.76% to 14.64% for C-F to C-2F [49].
Similarly, in 2022, the same group replaced the rhodamine acceptor with alkylcyanoacetate (alkyl = C2 to C8) in DRTB-T-CX molecules and obtained TBCA-CX.
All the blends of TBCA-CX with IT-4F acceptor showed strong diffractions in the out-of-plane direction, suggesting dominant face-on-orientation (Figure 14d–i).
The TBCA-C4: IT-4F blend film exhibited the smallest π-π stacking distance of 3.49 Å, resulting in stronger intermolecular aggregation between donor and acceptor, while the π-π stacking distance of the TBCA-C6 and TBCA-C8 blends with IT-4F acceptor increased from 3.54 Å to 3.59 Å, respectively.
Suitable domain size and proper aggregations of TBCA-C4 with IT-4F acceptor provided an efficient channel for charge transport.
More compact molecular packing, higher face-on-orientation ratio of TBCA-C4:IT-4F, and suitable aggregation of donor and acceptor resulted in a better PCE of 9.21% [121].
Moreover, controlling the alkyl chains in the end-group of the donor molecule is highly expected to alter the nanostructures of the active layer by modifying with acceptor molecules.
showed three molecules, BSCl-C1/C2/C3 with branching points (R-C1, R-C2, and R-C3) in alkyl terminal chains, offering some hints about their miscibility with acceptor IDIC-4Cl.
The 2D-GIWAXS patterns of donor pristine showed edge-on molecular packing and after mixing, the position and intensity of the diffraction peaks changed, but the original packing direction was maintained (Figure 15e–k).
Due to high ordering, strong molecular crystallinity, and intermolecular interaction with acceptor, a sufficient phase separation and proper domain size were observed in the BSCl-C2-blended film and led to a higher PCE of 12.4% compared to the BSCl-C1- and BSCl-C3-blended films [123].
showed the 2D GIWAXS patterns differences between molecular packing and crystallinity of the as-cast and thermally annealed molecules H11, H13, and H14 with IDIC-4F acceptor.
The integrated peak intensity increased after annealing, and more intense diffraction peaks due to lamellar stacking in OOP and π–π stacking in IP directions were observed, confirming that the thermal annealing induced molecular aggregation and enriched the edge-on orientation of the neat donors.
designed a novel molecule BSCl, and after combining TA and SVA, an efficient PCE of 13.03% was achieved with IDIC-4Cl acceptor.
The GIWAXS images revealed that TA+SVA diffraction peaks have a high-order and increased calculated crystal coherence lengths (CCL) of donor crystallite in the out-of-plane direction of blend films.
In the development of new molecules, chemists need balance between solubility, molecular miscibility with donor and/or acceptor, phase aggregation tendency in film state, potential carrier mobilities, and special attention on energetics and optical properties.
To engineer better OPVs and ameliorate global climate change it is necessary to answer (1) “Which nanostructures are required for high device efficiency?”, and (2) “What processing protocols are required to obtain these structures?” In this article, we address the first question by identifying structure-performance relationships for the benchmark donor material poly-(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT).
P3HT is the benchmark donor material in organic electronics, largely due to reasonable hole mobilities, ideal energy level placement and bandgap, excellent optical absorption, and good solution processability [14].
In this Minireview we will first introduce an overview of the unique features of XB—directionality, tunability, hydrophobicity, and donor atom size—that have driven its exponential growth in the last few years.
Moreover, the frequent presence of fluorinated segments in the XB‐donor not only boosts interaction strength, but also increases the hydrophobicity of the final supramolecular adducts, giving protection against humidity and boosting material stability.
A) Schematic view of the XB between iodopentafluorobenzene (IPFB, XB‐donor) and a generic halide anion (X−=I−, Br−, Cl−, XB‐acceptor).
Experimental evidence of the role of XB‐donors in modulating the crystallization of perovskite films and improving the resulting photovoltaic performances has been provided by Bi et al.
[44]  They added either diiodoperfluorobutane (I(CF2)4I) or diiodobutane (I(CH2)4I) as XB‐donors in the CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite precursor solution (Figure 3 A).
A) Schematic representation of the XB between the additives (C4F8I2, top, and C4H8I2, bottom, XB‐donors) and iodine anions (XB‐acceptors) in the CH3NH3PbI3 precursor solution.
This concept was later on further developed by the same group, who obtained enhanced stability and performance of the devices by directly incorporating in the hole transport layer (HTL) XB‐donor groups able to interact with the perovskite.
A similar approach has been adopted by Fu et al., [52]  who recently used a monovalent tetrafluoro iodoaromatic synthon to increase the XB‐donor ability of the cation in a 2D/3D hybrid perovskite.
[53]  In our opinion, it is more likely that this interaction can be ascribed to a genuine hydrogen bond, where the nucleophilic Br− ion is behaving as the electron donor towards the pyrrolic H atom.
However, they may be more likely related to the peculiar electron distribution in perfluorophenyl rings, which usually behave as electron‐acceptors in anion⋅⋅⋅π interactions.
The defects formed by Se and the Br vacancies in BiSeBr were both shallow donors and therefore did not effectively trap electrons, allowing efficient electron transport.
Given the relatively low CB and high n-type conductivity, it is predicted that Cl and Br doped Bi2S3 under the Birich condition acts as an ideal candidate for the electron acceptor or counter electrode; however, the performance of Bi2S3 as a light-absorber or sensitizer material is intrinsically limited.
Probing into the possible origin of efficiency losses by RT time-resolved PL (Figure 12f) further revealed the short carrier lifetime of ∼1 ns and the presence of bulk recombination centers associated with the Bis and Vs (sulfur vacancy) point defects.190 This record device efficiency for BiSI solar cells later sparked an interest in the research community to realize the potential of Bi-based derivatives as a counter electrode in DSSCs and as an electron acceptor in halide perovskite solar cells.
Recently, Yoo et al.104 demonstrated that the in situ formed BiSI layer at the interface of the ETL and BiI3 absorber layer, acts as an electron acceptor to further improve the rate of photoinduced charge separation and extraction of electrons in BiI3 solar cells.
Although few attempts have been made on the demonstration of working devices based on BiSI as an absorber or as electron acceptor, and a single attempt on the use of Bi19S27Br3 and Bi19S27I3 as CEs in DSSCs, no attempts have been made to fabricate devices based on other derivatives of Bi-based chalcohalide materials until recently.
This paper looks from a theoretical viewpoint into two of the factors for the design of semiconductor materials with applications to bulk heterojunction solar cells: the charge transfer exciton binding energy and the nanoscale arrangement of donor and acceptor molecules in blend systems.
Being aware that the exciton dissociation of local excitons in charge transfer states initiates the charge generation process, the excited state properties of four oligomers (one donor-type: PEO–PPV; and three donor–acceptor-types: PTFB, PTB7, and PTB7–Th) and two fullerene derivatives ([60]PCBM and [70]PCBM), previously reported in the literature as having high electrical conductance, are studied.
With such a study, the donor molecules, either of donor-type or donor–acceptor type, are screened as candidates for [60]PCBM- and/or [70]PCBM-based bulk heterojunctions.
The charge transfer energy and charge transfer exciton binding energy of suitable donor:acceptor bulk heterojunctions, some of them not yet fabricated, are studied.
Our predictions in terms of the influence of the nanoscale arrangement of donor and acceptor molecules on the performance of organic solar cells indicate that bulk heterojunction morphologies for donor–acceptor-type oligomers lead to their lowest excited states having charge transfer character.
However, exciton dissociation is not easy to achieve, and in many cases, losses occur.1 The efforts to understand and control the operation of OPVs have led to many device architectures, ranging from a single conductive layer to donor:acceptor (D:A) bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) through D/A bi or multilayer systems.
PTB7, in contrast to other donor polymers, broadly absorbs in the near-infrared and has a low optical band gap, which leads to high-performance PTB7-based OPVs.11,12 The absorption spectrum of PTB7 is further red-shifted when it is thiophene-functionalized as PTB7–Th.
They evaluated the energy landscape explored by mobile charges in the vicinity of donor–acceptor interfaces with realistic morphologies.
Next, the excited state properties of all possible donor:acceptor combinations, based on the absorption properties of single films, are theoretically studied.
Simplified molecular structures of donor (D) and acceptor (A) materials under study.
If our model succeeds in the prediction of the charge transfer exciton binding energy and the nanoscale arrangement of donor and acceptor molecules in blend systems, then this scheme may be applied for other OPV materials.
To a 30 × 30 × 30 nm oligomer-only box, acceptor molecules were added.
In BHJs, a CT state can be the result of a local absorption on the D molecule (tetramer/polymer) followed by an electron transfer from the absorber molecule to a neighboring acceptor molecule at a D/A interface.
This suggests that [70]PCBM is a more favorable acceptor for PTFB than [60]PCBM (see Tables 3 and 4).
As a closing remark, we believe that in the quest of designing novel materials for organic solar cells, polarizable materials as conjugated donor–acceptor copolymers are crucially important not only for fullerene-based cells but also for small molecule acceptor-based devices.
Herein, we designed and synthesized a series of phenoxazine-based dyes, YH1, YH2, YH3, and YH4, whose absorption spectrum, electrochemical cyclic voltammetry, theoretical calculation, dye-sensitized solar cell photovoltaic characteristics, and electrochemical AC impedance are used to analyze the photophysical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic performance of the materials, aiming to study the effect of multidonor and adjustment of the chromophore insertion position on their photovoltaic performance.
When donor triphenylamine is added at the end of YH1 and YH3, the absorption spectrum and photovoltaic performance of dyes YH2 and YH4 improved a little.
Most of the design concepts of organic dyes are subordinated to D−π–A configuration because the D−π–A configuration can effectively increase the intramolecular electron transfer potential energy difference and guarantee the molecular adsorption attitude on the surface of TiO2.34 In the D−π–A configuration of a dye, aromatic amine moieties such as triphenylamine (TPA) and phenoxazine (POZ) are the desired candidates for being an electron donor, cyanacrylic acid is widely employed as an electron acceptor, and benzoheterocyclic moieties and thiophene and its derivatives have been generally used as a π-conjugated bridge in the molecular design of organic dyes.35
Appropriate tailoring of D−π–A configuration, such as increasing the conjugate length or increasing or decreasing certain moieties to suit the special needs of DSC devices, has always been one of the important means of designing high-performance organic dyes.36 For example, extended and enlarged π-conjugated bridge is one of the strategies to broaden the absorption spectra and improve the Jsc of DSC,37 but the results are often unsatisfactory, for the extension of the π-conjugated system often results in poor Voc because of dye aggregation as well as electron recombination issues; therefore, a long alkyl chain is often introduced into the donor moieties to prohibit dye aggregation and electron recombination.38 However, in the structural regulation of D−π–A type organic dyes, some fine-tuning of the structures, such as making some moieties cyclized or changing the position of certain moieties, still lacks systematic research on the effect on DSC photovoltaic performance.
Herein, we use TPA or POZ as the donor, (ethylenedioxy)thiophene (EDOT) or thiophene as the π-bridge, and the classic moiety cyanoacetic acid as the anchor group and combine appropriate molecular tailoring strategy to design and synthesize four POZ-based dyes YH1, YH2, YH3, and YH4 through Stille coupling, Suzuki coupling, Knoevenagel condensation, and other classic reactions.
We attempt to investigate the effect of multidonor and structural fine-tuning on the photophysical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic properties of the DSCs.
Preliminary test results show that when adding a donor (TPA) to YH1 and YH3, the absorption spectra and photovoltaic performance of dyes YH2 and YH4 improved: compared with YH1 (Voc = 0.72 V, Jsc = 12.60 mA·cm–2, FF = 0.72, η = 6.53%), the PCE of YH2 (Voc = 0.76 V, Jsc = 12.93 mA·cm–2, FF = 0.73, η = 7.17%) increased by 9.8%; under the same conditions, the PCE of YH4 (Voc = 0.77 V, Jsc = 15.96 mA·cm–2, FF = 0.73, η = 8.97%) increased by about 11.2% compared with YH3 (Voc = 0.73 V, Jsc = 15.48 mA·cm–2, FF = 0.71, η = 8.02%) (FF is the fill factor).
In addition, note that although the structure of the four dyes was similar, the absorption spectral characteristics of the four dyes were significantly different: first, dyes YH2 and YH4 were red-shifted or the molar extinction coefficient increased because of the introduction of donor TPA, which was well known to all.
Note that when adding a donor TPA for YH1, the Voc of dye YH2 increased slightly from 0.72 to 0.76 V, Jsc increased from 12.60 to 12.93 mA·cm–2, and the energy conversion efficiency (η) increased from 6.53 to 7.17%.
These results suggest that the introduction of donor TPA can indeed improve the photovoltaic characteristics of the dye, which has been confirmed in our previous work.21,39 When introducing the EDOT units to the right of the POZ unit, the Voc of YH3 and YH4 was slightly increased to 0.73 and 0.77 V, while the Jsc significantly increased to 15.48 and 15.96 mA·cm–2, and the energy conversion efficiency finally reached 8.02 and 8.97%, respectively, indicating that appropriate molecular tailoring strategies can effectively improve the photovoltaic performance of the dye.
Through the impedance test, we also found that the additional donor has a certain positive effect on the Voc of the DSC, while the interchanged position of the EDOT unit had a positive impact on the Jsc of the DSC.
The main purpose of the design was to investigate the influence of introduction of additional donors and changing the position of the chromophore EDOT on the absorption spectrum, energy level, and photovoltaic performance of the organic dye.
The absorption spectrum test in solution suggested that when adding a donor (TPA) at the end of YH1 and YH3, the absorption spectrum and molar extinction coefficient of the dyes YH2 and YH4 were somewhat improved.
CV tests showed that after inserting a donor to YH1 and YH3, the HOMO levels of YH2 and YH4 were slightly increased, and the band gaps were slightly narrowed, while the change of the insertion position of the chromophore EDOT significantly improved the absorption spectrum and band gaps of YH3 and YH4.
The photovoltaic characteristic tests suggested that the introduction of donor TPA only slightly increased the open-circuit voltage as well as the short-circuit current of YH2 and YH4.
Finally, we found that although the design strategy of introducing multidonors have somewhat improved the absorption spectrum and photovoltaic characteristics of the dye, the change of the insertion position of EDOT was the main reason for the significant improvement of the photovoltaic characteristics of YH3 and YH4..
Although the factors influencing Voc are still not fully understood, it is generally believed that the energy level offset between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor minus the exciton binding energy (Eex) directly determines the value of Voc.
The key factor of Voc is the magnitude of the energy distribution of the intermediate electronic states beneath the LUMO level of the acceptor.
In addition, the work function difference of the cathode/anode and the weight ratio of the donor and the acceptor28,29 are other two factors that can change the Voc.
Here, for the desired BHJ structural morphologies, the phase scale of the active layer should be controlled within exciton diffusion length ~10 nm in organic semiconductors [26,27] (or ~20–47 nm for nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) [28]; ~70 nm for ordered conjugated polymers [29]; >200 nm for conjugated block-copolymer nanofibers) [30], motivating to understand the phase-separation mechanism through the calculation of ternary phase diagrams containing the binodal, spinodal, tie line, and critical point [31,32,33].
To understand the bicontinuous morphologies in the demixed donor/acceptor blends for OPV, both thermodynamics and kinetics are usually required, concerning both the equilibrium and dynamics of liquid-liquid (L-L) and liquid-solid (L-S) phase transition [30,31,32,45,54,55].
For example, the ternary P3HT solutions were studied as a function of temperature, molecular weight, solvent species [CB, chloroform (CF), toluene (TOL)], processing additive (DIO, and ODT), and electron acceptor (PC61BM, PC71BM, and ITIC).
Table 1 and Table 2 display the characteristic properties of polymers, electron acceptors, solvents, and additives, from which the five parameters (χ12,χ13,χ23,s and r) were estimated (see Table 3).
Next, the electron-acceptor effect on the phase behavior was studied for the ternary systems of (a) CB/P3HT/PC71BM and (b) CB/P3HT/ITIC.
The phase diagrams of ternary π-conjugated polymer solutions were constructed as a function of temperature, molecular weight, solvent species, additive, and electron acceptor.
(5) If the electron-donating polymer is P3HT, the nonfullerene acceptor ITIC has a less miscibility with P3HT than does the fullerene acceptor (i.e., PC61BM or PC71BM).
The use of non-fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices could lead to enhanced efficiencies due to increased open-circuit voltage (VOC) and improved absorption of solar light.
Here we systematically investigate planar heterojunction devices comprising peripherally substituted subphthalocyanines as acceptors and correlate the device performance with the heterojunction energetics.
It is found that non-fullerene acceptors require adjusted buffer layers with aligned electron transport levels to enable efficient charge extraction, while the insertion of an exciton-blocking layer at the anode interface further boosts photocurrent generation.
Transient absorption studies have shown that a reduction of this energetic driving force decreases the quantum yield of free charge carriers.1,2 As a consequence, efficient photocurrent generation is observed only when sufficient band energy offsets are present at the heterojunction.3,4 On the other hand, the open-circuit voltage (VOC) of OPV devices has been shown to scale with the interface energy gap EDA, which is the energy difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor.5,6 The photocurrent and VOC are thus both governed by the heterojunction energetics.
The use of fullerenes as acceptors in OPV devices generally enables efficient charge transfer and electron transport.
As a consequence, performance enhancement of OPV devices has mainly been achieved by the development of new donor materials.7,8 Chemical functionalization of small-molecule or polymer donor materials either adjusts the band gap to enhance the light absorption and photocurrent or shifts the HOMO level to increase the energy of the CT state and VOC.
However, VOC of efficient fullerene-based OPV devices is generally limited to below 1 V because of the small optical band gap of fullerene acceptors.3 Therefore, it has been suggested that non-fullerene acceptors could enable an increased VOC in OPV devices without sacrificing photocurrent generation.
Furthermore, non-fullerene acceptors offer additional advantages compared with fullerenes, such as efficient absorption of solar light and easy tuning of the band energies by chemical modification.
Boron subphthalocyanine chloride (SubPc) is an organic semiconducting molecule commonly used as an electron-donor material in OPV devices.9,10 In combination with fullerene acceptors, power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) above 5% have been reported.11,12 However, SubPc can also be employed as an acceptor material, provided that the selected donor material supplies sufficient energy offsets to enable efficient exciton dissociation at the heterojunction.13,14 The electronic properties of SubPc molecules can easily be tuned by the introduction of peripheral substituents.9 Similar to halogenation of phthalocyanines,15 peripheral halogenation of SubPc results in a shift of the molecular orbital energy levels, enabling the use of these SubPc derivatives as acceptors in combination with common donor materials.
As a consequence, the class of SubPc molecules is highly suited for use in investigating the influence of the acceptor’s energetic position on OPV device performance.
Moreover, the easy tunability of their energy levels simplifies the optimization of interface energetics in donor–acceptor heterojunctions.
Both peripherally and axially substituted SubPc molecules have been applied as electron-acceptor materials in previous reports, resulting in high-voltage devices with VOC values of up to 1.3 V.16−18 However, low quantum efficiencies and the overlapping absorption profiles of the donor and acceptor materials resulted in low photocurrent generation.
Selecting donor materials with absorption profiles complementary to those of the SubPc acceptors has resulted in efficiencies over 6%.19 Partial or full halogenation of the SubPc periphery (namely, F12-SubPc-Cl and Cl6-SubPc-Cl) yielded the most promising results.
Further efficiency enhancement could be achieved by fine-tuning the HOMO level and especially the LUMO level of the acceptor compound in the corresponding active layer.
In this study, we combined four small-band-gap donor materials with four peripherally substituted SubPc derivatives as acceptors in vacuum-evaporated planar-heterojunction OPV devices.
Moreover, cyano groups were introduced as novel electron-accepting peripheral substituents, giving access to the new evaporable electron acceptor (CN)3-SubPc-F bearing π-conjugated substituents and an electron-withdrawing character intermediate between those of Cl6-SubPc-Cl and F12-SubPc-Cl.
As a result of the alteration of the peripheral substituent groups on the SubPc molecule, the LUMO energy of these non-fullerene acceptors could be tuned in this particular case by over 0.3 eV.
The facile energy level tuning of SubPc acceptors enabled us to systematically study the effect of the heterojunction energetics on the device performance, while the complementary absorption profiles of the donor and acceptor materials resulted in high photocurrent generation.
The highest PCE was obtained for the combination of boron subnaphthalocyanine chloride (SubNc) as the donor and hexachlorinated SubPc (Cl6-SubPc-Cl) as the acceptor.
(a) Molecular structures of the SubPc acceptors.
(b) Molecular structures of the donor materials.
(c) Schematic representation of the LUMO energy levels of the SubPc acceptors, the HOMO energy levels of the donor materials, and the interface band gap EDA.
Planar-heterojunction devices containing the SubPc derivatives as acceptors were fabricated.
These non-fullerene acceptors were combined with the small-band-gap donor materials shown in Figure 1b: lead phthalocyanine (PbPc), zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc), SubNc, and zinc tetrafluorophthalocyanine (F4-ZnPc).
These donor molecules were selected to span a range of HOMO energy levels (−5.0, −5.11, −5.37, and −5.46 eV, respectively).22−24 Because of their smaller band gaps, all of the donor materials have absorption spectra complementary to those of the SubPc acceptors (Figure S3).
A 14 nm thick donor layer was deposited for SubNc, while a thickness of 40 nm was chosen for the other phthalocyanine donors.
The thickness of the acceptor layer was set at 8 nm, irrespective of which SubPc derivative was used.
Insertion of 5 nm of MoO3 at the anode interface ensured good hole extraction due to an improved energy level alignment with the donor materials.25 A 50 nm thick 1:1 blend of bathocuproine (BCP) and fullerene C60 was used as the electron transport layer (ETL).
The low optical absorption and high conductivity of this layer ensured sufficient optical spacer thickness without compromising electron extraction.26 It has been shown that the presence of fullerene in the ETL does not actively contribute to the photocurrent generation in devices with a SubPc derivative as the acceptor.19,27 The effect of the SubPc acceptor on device performance was studied by current density–voltage (J–V) measurements under simulated solar illumination of 100 mW/cm2 (Figure S4) and by external quantum efficiency (EQE) measurements (Figure S5).
The combination of each SubPc derivative with several donor materials resulted in a large set of data (Table S1), enabling us to assess the impact of the heterojunction energetics on the VOC, fill factor (FF), and photocurrent.
In this set of bilayer heterojunction devices, the VOC ranges from 0.3 to 1.1 V. For a single donor material, the VOC can be tuned by 0.3 V depending on the choice of the SubPc acceptor.
Only devices with a F4-ZnPc donor yielded a reduced VOC compared with the other donor materials, possibly resulting from significantly increased recombination losses.
The advantage of the SubPc acceptors hence lies in the facile tuning of EDA rather than reducing the energy losses at the active heterojunction.
(d) The FF is related to the LUMO energy of the acceptor.
Figure 2b shows the photocurrents for all of the studied donor–acceptor heterojunctions in relation to their interface gaps.
The photocurrent generation differs significantly for devices with different donor materials, depending on the absorption and spectral response of the specific donor material (see the EQE curves in Figure S5).
In contrast, the different SubPc derivatives all have similar absorption spectra, and the variation in photocurrent density upon changing the acceptor material in these devices is therefore a good indication of their internal quantum efficiencies.
Figure 2b reveals a general trend toward low photocurrent generation at large EDA for all of the donor materials.
The maximal interface gap where efficient CT still occurs differs for every donor material and depends on the optical band gap of the donor.
For example, devices with SubNc as the donor, which has the largest band gap of the studied donor materials, generated reasonable photocurrents with all of the SubPc acceptors.
In contrast, for devices containing PbPc, the donor with the smallest band gap in our study, the photocurrent was significantly reduced as EDA increased.
In case of the F4-ZnPc/Cl4-SubPc-Cl heterojunction, EDA is too large and the energy of the CT state equals or exceeds the donor exciton energy.
These observations confirm the correlation between the heterojunction energetics and the charge generation kinetics at the donor–acceptor interface.
With the contour lines indicating PCEs calculated assuming a 65% FF and a voltage-independent photocurrent, we expect the highest PCE for the combination of a SubNc donor with a Cl6-SubPc-Cl acceptor.
Disregarding possible variations in FF, all of the remaining donor–acceptor pairs yield either a reduced VOC or photocurrent and consequently cannot obtain higher efficiencies.
For a specific donor material, however, the PCE can easily be maximized by selecting the most appropriate acceptor material.
Figure 2d plots the measured FF as a function of the LUMO energy of the SubPc acceptor.
While the Cl6-SubPc-Cl acceptor yields FFs of up to 66%, severe S-kinks in the J–V curve reduce the FF below 25% for the F12-SubPc-Cl acceptor.
However, the series resistances extracted from the measured J–V curves are similar for all of the donor–acceptor combinations in our study, indicating that potential mobility or bulk recombination effects are not the main cause of the reduced FF.
The observed S-kinks are known to occur in planar-heterojunction devices when injection or extraction barriers are present at the interface between the active layer and the charge transport layer.30 Because the FF is mainly determined by the choice of acceptor material in our device set, we conclude that the energy alignment at the acceptor–ETL interface is critical to avoid S-kink manifestation.
As electron extraction in the BCP:C60 ETL likely occurs through percolating conductive pathways of fullerene molecules, this blend functions as an excellent ETL for fullerene acceptors.26 However, a BCP:C60 ETL likely gives rise to charge injection or extraction barriers in combination with most non-fullerene acceptors, and energy level alignment between the SubPc acceptor and C60 is required to achieve high FFs.
Clearly, Cl6-SubPc-Cl fulfills this requirement, which explains the highly efficient devices obtained in previous work.19 The remaining acceptor materials either form an extraction barrier (F12-SubPc-Cl and (CN)3-SubPc-F) or an injection barrier (Cl4-SubPc-Cl) with the BCP:C60 ETL, resulting in reduced FFs.
In device structures with a F12-SubPc-Cl acceptor layer, we replaced the BCP:C60 ETL with a Yb-doped BCP layer.
The high conductivity of this BCP:Yb layer ensures good electron extraction even at the high thickness needed in our device structures.31Figure 3 illustrates that the severe S-kink in the J–V curve for device A is no longer present for the BCP:Yb ETL in device B, confirming that BCP:C60 indeed impedes electron extraction from the F12-SubPc-Cl acceptor.
At the anode interface of the device structure, a MoO3 HTL was used to ensure efficient hole extraction from the donor layers.25 Unfortunately MoO3 also significantly reduces the photocurrent as a result of quenching of donor excitons at its interface.34,35 The introduction of exciton-blocking12,36 or exciton-dissociating HTLs24 has been shown to significantly improve photocurrent generation in planar-heterojunction devices.
Also, for the champion heterojunction, comprising a SubNc donor and Cl6-SubPc-Cl acceptor (device D), the photocurrent was further boosted by introducing an exciton-blocking DIP layer at the anode (device E).
Moreover, with a VOC above 1 V and a FF of 67%, the resulting PCE of 6.9% is among the highest reported efficiencies for bilayer OPV devices with a non-fullerene acceptor.
In conclusion, we have demonstrated the efficient use of SubPc derivatives as non-fullerene acceptors in bilayer heterojunction devices.
In a systematic study, we explored how the device performance depends on the LUMO energy level of these acceptors.
Peripheral substitution of the SubPc acceptors enables this interface gap optimization, while the selection of the electron and hole transport layers is crucial to achieve high photocurrent generation and extraction.
This study thus shows that the use of non-fullerene acceptors is a successful method to enhance the performance of organic solar cells.
Hetero-junction organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells consisting of donor (D) and acceptor (A) layers have been regarded as next-generation PV cells, because of their fascinating advantages, such as lightweight, low fabrication cost, resource free, and flexibility, when compared to those of conventional PV cells based on silicon and semiconductor compounds.
In this review, we address an improvement of the mobility of carriers/excitons by controlling the crystal structure of a donor layer and address how to increase the V OC for zinc octaethylporphyrin [Zn(OEP)]/C60 hetero-junction OPV cells [ITO/Zn(OEP)/C60/Al].
Conversely, charge accumulation of photo-generated carriers in the vicinity of the donor/acceptor (D/A) interface was found to play a key role in determining the V OC for the OPV cells.
Organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells consisting of organic donor (D) and acceptor (A) layered films deposited on an indium-tin-oxide (ITO) substrate (see Fig.
1c: 1) excitons are generated by light absorption of donor and acceptor films (η A), 2) the excitons diffuse to the donor/acceptor (D/A) interface (η ED), 3) carriers (electrons and holes) are generated by the exciton dissociation at the D/A interface (η CG), and 4) electrons and holes are moved to and collected at the cathode and anode electrodes (η CT).
Although the V OC has been reported to depend on the electronic states in the vicinity of D/A interface such as energy difference (ΔE HL) between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of a donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of an acceptor (12–14), there have been many OPV cells whose V OC does not show such a dependence.
Zinc octaethylporphyrin [Zn(OEP)] and C60 were, respectively, used as a donor and an acceptor, because the former has a high photo absorption coefficient (15) and the latter has a high electron affinity (16).
PEDOT:PSS is generally used as a buffer layer between an ITO substrate and a donor layer, because PEDOT:PSS adjusts the work function at the anode for improving hole injection into the anode from a donor layer (23).
Much attention has been paid to understand the origins from the correlation between V OC and the energy difference between the HOMO of the donor material and LUMO of the acceptor (ΔE HL) (10, 12–14).
The typical size of the band-bending for organic films has been reported to be less than 15 nm (36, 37), which is smaller than the thickness of the present donor (20 nm thick) and acceptor (30 nm thick) films.
The increase in V bi upon photoirradiation may be due to the accumulation of photo-generated electrons and holes in the vicinity of the interface (39), because a high resistivity of both organic films (for example, the resistivity of pristine C60 film is in the range of 108–1014 Ωcm) probably prevents carriers (electrons and holes) from diffusing in the acceptor and donor films, respectively.
Accordingly, 1) an improvement of the diffusion length of IMCT excitons by controlling film structures, and 2) a combination of donor and acceptor materials with both a low resistivity and a high V bi are regarded as an essential approach to improve the energy conversion efficiency of OPV cells.
The chemical structure of our donor polymer used in this work is shown in Figure 1a [32].
The donor polymer PFDT2BT-8 was synthesised in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Sheffield via a previously reported method, and had a molecular weight of 91.6 kDa and a polydispersity index (PDI) of 1.47 [32].
Two non-fullerene electron acceptors (IDIC and ID-MeIC) without and with methyl substitution were designed and synthesized for further study.
Generally, OSCs have a bulk hetero-junction (BHC) consist of an electron donor (D) and an electron acceptor (A) (Halls et al., 1995).
In the past few years, fullerene and its derivatives such as (PC61BM) are widely applied as the electron acceptor (Chen et al., 2015).
In the past 3 years, non-fullerene electron acceptors (NFAs) as alternatives for fullerene-base electron acceptors have achieved great developments.
Thus, IDT has been widely applied as a donor (D) unit and combined with an acceptor (A) unit to construct a variety of D-A conjugated polymers, which become one of the major families of polymers for organic solar cells (OSCs) (Li et al., 2017a; Zhang et al., 2017).
In these 2 years, various non-fullerene electron acceptors based on IDT- and its derivatives have also been developed for OSCs (Yan et al., 2017; Jiang et al., 2018).
Recently, our group designed and synthesized two new non-fullerene electron acceptors (CBT-IC and SBT-IC) by the short-axis substitution modification of non-fullerene acceptors based on the BDCPDT-system.
Then, a new non-fullerene acceptor (ID-MeIC) based on IDMe was design and synthesized.
Chemical structures of polymer donor (PBDB-T) and two non-fullerene electron acceptors (IDIC and ID-MeIC) are shown in Figure 2.
Chemical structures of (A) donor PBDB-T and (B) acceptor IDIC and ID-MeIC; (C) The molar extinction coefficients of IDIC and ID-MeIC in chloroform (10−5 M); (D) Normalized absorption spectra of IDIC and ID-MeIC in thin film; (E) Energy diagram of materials used in the PSC.
To investigate the photovoltaic performance of these NF-SMAs, polymer solar cells were fabricated with the device structure of indium tin oxide(ITO)/poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene): poly(styrene sulfonate)(PEDOT: PSS)/Active Layer/3,3′-(1,3,8,10-Tetraoxoanthra[2,1,9-def: 6,5,10-d'e'f']diisoquinoline-2,9(1H,3H,8H,10H)-iyl)bis(N,N-dimethylpropan-1-amine oxide)(PDINO)/aluminum (Al), where PEDOT:PSS and PDINO served as the anode and cathode interlayers; a wide bandgap polymer donor named PBDB-T blending with these two NF-SMAs served as the active layer.
The devices were optimized with different donor/acceptor (D/A) weight ratios, thermal annealing conditions, and active layer thickness.
This higher JSC and VOC of PBDB-T: IDIC-Me -based device is due to the methyl substitution on the short-axis of IDT which can elevate the EHOMO and decrease the Eg of ID-MeIC acceptor.
The photocurrent density (Jph) vs. effective voltage (Veff) of the devices based on PBDB-T: acceptors were also plotted to study the exciton dissociation and charge collection properties in the OSCs (Figure 4C).
ID-MeIC was functionalized as non-fullerene electron acceptors for comparison with previously reported IDIC without the methyl substitution.
Our results suggested that IDMe is a promising multi-fused ladder-type building block for designing efficient non-fullerene electron acceptors.
Organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs) are devices having an organic light absorption layer, which comprises a mixture of organic donor and acceptor, to absorb sunlight and convert it to electricity.
Because more absorption is expected to generate more excitons and electrical current, synthesizing new donors and acceptors with high absorptivity such as 2-alkyl-benzo[d][1,2,3]triazole (BTz) and IT-4F has been one of the main strategies to generate more electricity in the OPV field for a long time.1–8 Then, to further improve the light absorption inside the photoactive layer, ternary photoactive layers comprising a pair of two donors and one acceptor or one donor and two acceptors were suggested.9–14 The third species of photoactive materials widen the light absorption range to infrared or ultraviolet regions, leading to greater absorption in the photoactive layer.
When adopting microlens arrays, they exhibited comparable open-circuit voltage of approximately 0.77 V regardless of the materials used for the fabrication of the microlens because the open-circuit voltage is mainly determined by the energy level of the donor and acceptor materials,50,51 and identical material pairs were used to fabricate all photovoltaic devices.
This indicates that while photovoltage circumvents non-geminate losses, geminate recombination at the donor–acceptor interface remains the primary recombination pathway.
In an OPV, excitons must diffuse from the point of photogeneration to an electron donor–acceptor (D–A) interface in order to be dissociated and collected as a photocurrent1210.
The magnitude of the voltage generated by an OPV is proportional to the number of charge carriers in the donor and acceptor active layers272829.
While the discussion hereto has focused on the luminescent donor material SubPc to demonstrate the photovoltage technique, the method is broadly applicable provided the material of interest can be used as either a donor or acceptor layer in a planar heterojunction OPV (id est, it produces a photovoltage) without need to optimize the device or reach high efficiency.
Here, we further demonstrate this by extracting the LD of the archetypal donor material copper phthalocyanine (CuPc).
The boundary conditions used to solve the exciton diffusion equation were a reflecting indium-tin-oxide–donor interface and an exciton sink at the donor-acceptor interface consistent with PL quenching-based measurements of LD.
The concept of heterojunction cells relies on the efficient dissociation of an exciton, and the donor and acceptor material’s proximity factor plays a crucial role.
Furthermore, their charge transport mechanisms are not well understood yet; it has been reported that intra chain charge transport enhancement exists as a result of new electronegative groups in conjugated backbones and acceptor dimerization, promoting the carrier mobility and stability of semiconducting polymers [44,45].
Solar cell research based on heterojunctions (donor–acceptor) with staggered electronic band alignment, named the type-II configuration, has the potential to address efficiency limitations in already existing technologies.
Non-fullerene acceptor molecules developed for organic solar cells feature a very intense absorption band in the near-infrared.
The reflection spectra for polycrystalline films of a non-fullerene acceptor with a thienothienopyrrolo-thienothienoindole core of the so-called Y6 type indeed show a signature of polaritons.
The minimum in reflection allows efficient entry of light into the solid, resulting in a local maximum in external quantum efficiency of a photovoltaic cell made of the pure acceptor.
The correlation between experimental and predicted values illustrates the usefulness of the polariton concept for understanding the optical properties of molecular crystals.30,31 Yet surprisingly little experimental evidence has appeared indicating a role for polaritons in organic optoelectronic devices.32 This may be related to the fact that often the molecular layers used are amorphous.33−35 Here we investigate a polycrystalline film of the non-fullerene acceptor (S,S)-BTP-4F (1).36,37 We show that, while for amorphous films hardly any polariton characteristics are observable, for thermally annealed polycrystalline films the reflection spectrum shows a pronounced minimum in the middle of the lowest band.
Dithienosilole moiety is an electron donating unit, and it has been applied, for example, as a part of small molecular and polymeric electron donors in high performance organic photovoltaic cells.
The effect of inserting additional hexylthiophene structures symmetrically into the material backbone was investigated, and it was noted that contrary to commonly accepted fact, the distance between electron donor and acceptor seems to play a bigger role in lowering the Egap value of the molecule than just extending the length of the conjugated backbone.
Alternating the donor–acceptor sequence in organic semiconductors has had a beneficial impact on HOMO–LUMO levels of the material and promoting, e.g., charge carrier properties.6 For example, in small molecular OPV active layers, the most successful composition has been acceptor–donor–acceptor, where the central part of the molecule was an electron donating moiety and end groups work as electron acceptors (also known as push–pull structure).7
The utilization of the alkylated dithienosilole (DTS) moiety in OPV application dates to 2006 to the work of Usta et al.11 Even though the number of publications concerning dithienosilole as a central unit has been recently decreasing, dithienosilole moiety is still a valid building block when developing high-performance electron donors in OPV applications.12
The series of DTGe(FBTTh2)2, DTGe(FBTTh3)2, and DTGe(ThFBTTh2)2 (entries 7–9) show also that Egap can be decreased by increasing the Th end units and decreasing the distance between central donor unit (DTGe) and electron accepting FBT units, even though the effect is much less pronounced.
For benzodithiophene (BDT) central donors (entries 10–16), this effect seems to significantly increase with smaller distances between central donor and acceptors as in the case of the DTS central unit.23,24 From the results presented here and others found from literature, it can be concluded that bringing the acceptor moiety closer to the central donor unit by shortening the intermediate π-bridge decreases the Egap-value of the compound most efficiently.
A series of dopant-free D-π-A structural hole-transporting materials (HTMs), named as SGT-460, SGT-461, and SGT-462, incorporating a planar-type triazatruxene (TAT) core, thieno[3,2-b]indole (TI) π-bridge and three different acceptors, 3-ethylthiazolidine-2,4-dione (ED), 3-(dicyano methylidene)indan-1-one (DI), and malononitrile (MN), were designed and synthesized for application in perovskite solar cells (PrSCs).
The effect of three acceptor units in star-shaped D-π-A structured dopant-free HTMs on the photophysical and electrochemical properties and the photovoltaic performance were investigated compared to the reference HTM of 2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis[N,N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)amino]-9,9′-spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD).
As a result, the molecular engineering of a planar donor core, π-bridge, and end-capped acceptor led to good hole mobility, yielding 11.76% efficiency from SGT-462-based PrSCs, and it provides a useful insight into the synthesis of the next-generation of HTMs for PrSC application.
Most of efficient dopant-free HTMs have the donor−π−acceptor (D-π-A) architecture because they allow the low band gap, ionic character enhancement by avoiding the use of dopants, and strong dipolar intermolecular interaction [14].
The other is the modification of chemical moieties such as core unit, electron donor, π-bridge, and acceptor.
The dopant-free HTMs based on various moieties, such as diphenylamine [27], triphenylamine [18,28], carbazole as electron donors [29], thiophene [30], 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene [31], naphtho-dithiophene [32], spiro[fluorene-9,9′-xanthene] [33], and triazatruxene (TAT) as core units, electron donors, and π-bridges [24], diketopyrrolopyrrole [34], isoindigo [35], and benzothiadiazole as electron acceptors [36,37], have been applied in PrSCs.
TAT as the central core donor, three thieno[3,2-b]indole (TI) moieties as π-bridges, and three different acceptors, 3-ethylthiazolidine-2,4-dione (ED), 3-(dicyano methylidene)indan-1-one (DI), and malononitrile (MN), as the acceptors and the end-capped groups, were used to construct the star-shaped SGT-460, SGT-461, and SGT-462, respectively.
Three different acceptors were introduced to investigate the effects of the TAT core-based HTMs on molecular and photovoltaic properties.
The final products of SGT-460, SGT-461, and SGT-462 were synthesized by condensing the aldehydes and the acceptors under Knoevenagel reaction conditions.
The Egopt variation can be ascribed to the combination of the changes in the accepting ability of the acceptor units (NM > ED > DI) with the conjugation length of the HTMs.
Also, the oxidation potential (Eox) variation can be attributed to the combination of the changes in the acceptor ability with the conjugation length of the HTMs.
This indicates that the end-capped acceptors worked as the dopant.
In other words, the end-capped acceptors allowed self-doping HTMs by introduction of ionic character to them.
In summary, new dopant-free D-π-A structural hole-transporting materials (HTMs), named as SGT-460, SGT-461, and SGT-462, incorporating a planar type triazatruxene (TAT) core, thieno[3,2-b]indole (TI) π-bridge and three different acceptors, 3-ethylthiazolidine-2,4-dione (ED), 3-(dicyano methylidene)indan-1-one (DI), and malononitrile (MN), were designed and synthesized for application in PrSCs.
The HOMO energy levels of the three HTMs decreased in the order of SGT-460 (5.12 eV) < SGT-461 (5.32 eV) < SGT-462 (5.41 eV) along with the variation of the acceptor ability of HTM molecules.
This study of structural engineering of TAT-based, dopant-free HTMs with different acceptor moieties provides insights for developing efficient dopant-free, small molecule HTMs in the future.
In this research work, four new molecules from the π–A–π–D–π–A–π type reference molecule “DBS-2PP”, were designed for their potential application in organic solar cells by adding peripheral A2 acceptors to the reference.
Moreover, with PC61BM as the acceptor, D4 showed the maximum VOC and FF values.
Considering this, organic solar cell fabrication can be improved by using these newly derived donors at the donor–acceptor interfaces.Four new molecules from the π–A–π–D–π–A–π type reference molecule “DBS-2PP”, were designed for their potential application in organic solar cells by adding peripheral A2 acceptors to the reference.
These OPVs are considered more attractive because of their varied and tunable energy levels, adjustable morphology, as well as excellent purity.11 The active layer of OPVs, responsible for the current generation by light absorption, comprises donor and acceptor materials either separated or in a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ).
Between these two, the bulk-heterojunction (active layer made up by blending donor and acceptor materials) proves to be exceptional in terms of boosting the efficiencies of OPVs.
Additionally, due to its tunable organic materials, the efficiencies of BHJ-based OPVs can be further enhanced by experimenting with different blends of donors and acceptors.
Between the small molecule and polymer-based donor materials, the former are preferred for bulk-heterojunctions in the fabrication of OPVs.
This could be because they have a well-defined structure, are easier to purify, and also exhibit improved batch-to-batch reproducibility.12,13 Effective device manufacturing, as well as the utilization of novel small molecule donor (SMD) materials, is credited to have achieved PCEs of up to 11 percent when fullerene acceptor molecules such as PC61BM and PC71BM are blended with them.14 In addition, a variety of remodeling techniques, including end-capped engineering, central core remodeling, and pi-bridge placement or substitution, can be used on SMDs to improve their various photovoltaic properties.
For instance, by only adding small end-capped acceptors to a molecule, the consequent morphology of the whole blend can be impacted, which as a result affects the light absorption ranges, energy levels of frontier molecular orbitals, pi-bond conjugation, and the mobilities of charge carriers, all of which have a major influence on the overall performance of OPVs.
So in this research work, with the aforementioned capabilities of end-capped modification in mind, DBS-2DPP is taken as the reference molecule (R) and different side-chained acceptors are attached to its peripheral thiophene moieties.
DBS-2DPP is a dibenzosilole (DBS) core-based acceptor molecule with diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) arms attached to the DBS core via thiophene bridges, which are further attached to a second set of thiophene rings on each peripheral end, as shown in Fig.
But, when blended with a P3HT donor molecule to investigate its capabilities in OPVs, this molecule showed a photo-conversion efficiency (PCE) of only 2.05%, which might be due to its lower charge mobility, larger band-gap, and smaller absorption range.15–17 As a result, by modifying its morphology through the addition of strongly electron-withdrawing acceptor groups at the thiophene fringes of this molecule, four new molecules (D1–D4) have been reported, which due to their better opto-electronic properties and smaller band-gaps prove themselves to be better than the DBS-2PP (R) molecule, and thus could exhibit increased PCE if taken as donors and blended with some prominent electron acceptor molecule, such as PC61BM.
The reason behind the selection of this position is its reported strong electron transferring capabilities due to its seemingly planar orientation and low steric hindrance with the rest of the molecule.18 In D1, the newly attached acceptor moiety was; 2-(2-ethylidene-5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-malononitrile, in D2 it was; 5-ethylidene-3-methyl-2-thioxo-thiazolidin-4-one, in D3; 2-(1-chloro-5-ethylidene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta [c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile, while in D4 this moiety was 6-cyano-1-dicyanomethylene-2-ethylidene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester.
For this purpose, the bond length and dihedral angle of the carbon–carbon bond between the thiophene ring and the newly added acceptor group at their site of attachment were studied.
From these optimized geometries, the planarity in the molecules was estimated to be quite substantial, which could be attributed to the two smaller thiophene entities present between the large acceptor and donor groups of the molecules.
These thiophene rings, by acting as bridge between the acceptor and donor entities, reduced the overall steric hindrance within the molecule and increased the planarity, which as result, enhanced the conjugation in the molecules under scrutiny.
To quantitatively understand the planarity and conjugation of the newly added acceptors with respect to the rest of the molecule, the dihedral angles and bond length values were obtained at their point of attachment with the thiophene ring of the molecule.
It was discovered that the studied bond length of all the newly reported compounds fell at 1.42 Å, indicating significant conjugation and charge transfer between the molecule and the newly added acceptors.
So, the lower MPP (0.304 Å) value indicates that the reference (R), i.e., the central region, except for the added acceptors, has quite a planer structure, which is also indicated by its SDP (1.196 Å) results.
In R molecule, it is observable that there are a few blue and red parts at the DBS core and a few of them are also present at DPP acceptors, but the overall structure is quite planer.
Interestingly, all of the newly formulated compounds exhibited a bathochromic shift in their absorbance maxima, supporting our claim that the added peripheral acceptor groups have increased the conjugation and, by association, the electron transfer within the new molecules.
Individually, because of the presence of the unsaturated acetyle and cyano groups in the acceptor unit in D4, it has the maximum absorption value of 876 nm and 802 nm in the solvent and gaseous medium, respectively.
Actually, the effective electron-withdrawing newly added acceptors of the designed molecules increase the possibility of electronic excitation and thus lowers the required excitation energy.
It has been shown in literature that strong acceptor moieties are responsible for the higher oscillation strength of any molecule.42 The oscillator strength values in Tables 2 and 3 of optical properties, illustrates the higher oscillation strengths of the derived molecules as opposed to the reference.
Among all the newly tailored structures, D3 had the highest LHE because of the highest overlapping of pi-orbitals in combination with the lowest dihedral angle between its added peripheral and core of the molecule, which permits a more efficient electronic transition.38 It is clear from the values of light harvesting efficiency that the newly added acceptors at the peripheries of the molecules have directed the transfer of charges towards themselves and enhanced the conjugation, which benefited the molecule in harvesting light effectively and transporting the thus generated charges within itself.
Thus, as opposed to the reference molecule, all newly created compounds could be taken into consideration as conspicuous small molecules donors in organic photo-active layers of photovoltaic cells.
But for the efficient transfer of an electron from the valence-HOMO to the conduction-LUMO band, the most proficient approach is for the HOMO to be present around the donor region and the LUMO to be over the acceptor region.
Similar is the case in the D1–D4 structures, where the electron density of HOMO is dispersed uniformly on the DBS core, benzothiazole acceptors, and thiophene bridges, while in the LUMO state this electron density has moved towards the newly added peripheral acceptors.
This greater stability is attributed to the added electron withdrawing acceptor groups in the derived molecules.
Amongst all, the largest electron withdrawing acceptor group of D4 molecule with its prolonged conjugation has triggered this molecule to be the one with the most stability, which might also help it in being a proficient donor at the photo-active layer.
Usually, the greater the capability of an electron withdrawing group to extract the electrons from the donor region, the decreased will be value of the HOMO and LUMO energies.46 The band-gap, between the energy values of the FMOs, is closely related to the absorption maxima, as molecules with a lower band-gap tend to have a higher value of this important parameter.
The reason behind these lowered values of band-gap of the newly modified molecules is the added peripheral acceptor groups, which by enhancing the conjugation have reduced the values of the band-gap, and thus made the transfer of electrons between the FMOs much easier.
Though all the newly created molecules have a low band-gap, D4 has the lowest band-gap of all because of its most stable and differentiated FMOs and strongly conjugated end-capped electron acceptors containing cyano and acetyl groups.
Precisely in the DOS plots, the molecules were subdivided into four portions to comprehend their probable discrete contributions to the total electron density states, these parts are referred to as the bridge, the core (donor), the acceptor 1 (or acceptor in case of reference), and the acceptor 2 (the newly added one).
Because of the added acceptor groups, the newly formulated molecules have high-intensity peaks of TDOS in their conduction band (towards the right of LUMO), illustrating the enhanced probability of residence of electron in this band, i.e., better electron transfer than reference.
Individually, the peaks of acceptor 2 (blue) are the highest in case of D4 molecule, attributed to its most proficient abilities till now.
Similarly, the acceptor groups in all the newly formulated compounds have varying strengths and conjugation levels, making the peaks of graphs differ from each other.
On the other hand, upon the addition of peripheral acceptors (acceptor 2), the percentage contribution of each fragment has improved drastically.
The contribution of the donor in the LUMO has reduced from a 13% (R) to just 2.6–5.3% in the derived compounds, which could mean that the added acceptor fragments have shifted the LUMO electronic density towards themselves.
Thus, the percentage contribution of both the acceptor fragments (1 and 2) in LUMO charge density have also increased in the designed molecules as compared to the acceptor 1 of the reference.
These results signify the aptitude of the newly added fragments in differentiating the HOMO and LUMO in donor and acceptor, respectively, which could enhance the transfer of charges in the molecules.
On a side note, the relatively unchanged contribution of the thiophene (bridge) fragments in the FMOs of the derived molecules validates their prominent charge transfer between the core and the peripherally added acceptors.
Bridge (thiophene), acceptor and donor (DBS) participation in rising the HOMO & LUMO of R (DBS-2DPP) as well as architecture molecules (D1–D4)
Here, to the left of the central planar region is the valence band and towards its right is the conduction band.50 The more the Fermi level is towards the conduction band the greater is its tendency to be an acceptor, while the opposite is true for a molecule to show donating properties.41
Furthermore, the relationship among the core (donor), bridges, and acceptors can be determined by using the transition density matrix.44,51 Precisely, during excitation, interaction among donating and receiving moieties, in addition to the quantum geometry of the overall molecule, is determined with the help of TDM.52,53 The TDM plots are the spatial maps used to describe electronic excitation procedures in light harvesting devices like OPVs, in which electron density travels from the core to the acceptor moiety via pi-conjugation inside the molecules.54 In TDM graphs of Fig.
So, at B3LYP/6-31G (d,p), every molecule, except for reference, has been distributed into four moieties; donor (D), mid acceptors (A1), peripheral acceptors (A2), and bridge (B), while the reference constitutes three fragments, by excluding the A2 fragments (Fig.
Overall, the donor region of all the molecules, including reference, shows a rather low charge density, while brightly colored zones in the acceptor regions of the molecules depict the high charge density in them, meaning effective charge distribution towards acceptors.
This binding energy could be lowered by separating the acceptor and donor components within a molecule so that the respective holes and electrons could easily travel towards either of the two portions of the molecule.
In the designed chromophores, the existence of the newly added acceptor moieties has distinguished the acceptor and donor regions within the molecules effectively, making it feasible for the molecule to have lowered binding energies between the charge carriers of the excitons due to the lowered coulombic attractive forces between them.
Individually, the greater the electron withdrawing capability of the added acceptor fragment, the lowered the binding energy.
Similarly, the designed chromophores in the gas medium, all have lowered binding energies than the reference, due to their prominently electron withdrawing added terminal acceptors.
The mobility of charges between donor, as well as acceptor components, in each molecule, is assessed using internal RE.
The strength of the charge transfer between donor and acceptor units is estimated using the internal RE.59 Specifically, when the internal reorganization energy is decreased, the value of the rate of charge mobility is projected to be increased accordingly.
The likelihood of electron and hole transfer in donors and acceptors is highly dependent on the structural characteristics of the moieties involved.
While D4 has the highest IP value due to its lowest HOMO energy, and thus is the most stable molecule and due to this stability could act proficiently as a donor in the photo-active layer.62 Similarly, higher values of EA were demonstrated by all newly developed molecules because of their lower LUMO energy levels.
A molecule with a high value of dipole moment tends to be highly soluble in a polar organic solvent due to the high degree of charge mobility in it.63 The increased dipole moments cause the respective molecules to easily self-assemble in a packed and antiparallel orientation, which results in an increased charge transfer rate at the active-layer.64 A smooth surface of the donor–acceptor interface of the active layer enables the molecule to be readily dissolved, resulting in a more efficient solar device assembly.65 With the help of the information attained about the solubility, polarization, and crystallinity of any molecule, attained from its dipole moment value, its utilization in the solution processing techniques for the construction of OPVs can be made possible.
The probable charge transfer passage among donor, bridges, and acceptor moieties at the ground state was measured using the molecular electrostatic potential surface (MEPS) maps.63 The electrophilic and nucleophilic regions of the molecules under investigation were found via the use of MEPS simulations run at the designated DFT functional.67 In the red zones of the MEPS plots, a negative electrostatic potential, because of the excess of electrons is predicted.
There are quite plenty of red and yellow patches dispersed within the blue donor region on the MEPS of the reference molecule, suggesting the relatively indistinguishable electrophilic and nucleophilic attacking sites in it.
But in the derived molecules, there are distinct red zones at the peripheral acceptor regions, and blue zones at the rest of the molecule.
The majority of blue regions in the derived chromophores point towards their better aptitude as donors with their positive potential in the active layer.
The majority of blue regions in the derived chromophores point towards their better aptitude as donors with their positive potential in the active layer.
The maximum condensed red patches at the peripheries of the D4 molecule could be due to its significantly conjugated and electron withdrawing added acceptor group.39
The maximum open circuit photo-voltage that may be generated by a SC (due to the photoelectric effect) is governed by intensity of incident light, charge mobility, temperature of device, and the FMOs of the donor and acceptor molecules at the photo-active layer.
Here, the VOC of the considered donors was calculated by taking a theoretically proficient and effective acceptor; PC61BM.69 The selected acceptor, with a HOMO of −6.3 eV and LUMO of −3.7 eV, has been known to be a powerful fullerene acceptor and provides acceptable efficiency for the respective solar cells.
The reason behind the selection of our proposed molecules to be donors is the fact that a high value of VOC is achievable by lowering the energy level of HOMO in donor material and increasing the energy levels of LUMO in acceptor material of the photo-active layer.70 So, because of their low HOMO level than reference, all of the derived chromophores are predicted to have improved charge conduction and function as donor materials.
Actually, the open circuit photo-voltage (VOC) was obtained by subtracting the studied donors' HOMO from the acceptor's LUMO and dividing it with the charge of the molecule (taken as 1).
In addition, a value of 0.3 was also subtracted as a common empirical value in fullerene acceptor based solar cells.71Eqn (7) mathematically represents the relation stated above ,66 and the thus attained values are represented pictorially in Fig.
 V OC of proposed compounds, as well as the reference molecule, calculated using PC61BM as the acceptor.
From these values, it seems that all the newly proposed compounds could act as better donor materials in the photo-active layer of SC than reference.
Specifically, with the highly electron-withdrawing cyano and acetyl groups of the added end-capped acceptor stabilizing its HOMO value, D4 has the greatest VOC value of any molecule.
When evaluating the PCE of solar power systems, one of the most important factors to consider is the fill factor (or the amount of energy that is converted).72 Despite its intricacy, the VOC of the donor–acceptor contact makes it easy to calculate the theoretically estimated value of FF and has a significant impact on it as well.
In this investigation, four A2–π–A1–π–D–π–A1–π–A2 type small-molecule donors were theoretically designed and explored under DFT, in order to possibly improve the photovoltaic properties and efficiency of OSCs.
Here, a dibenzosilole-based DBS-2DPP molecule was taken as the reference and four new molecules were developed from it, with the addition of terminal acceptors at its peripheries.
These added acceptor groups by shifting the electron density towards themselves, better differentiated the donor and acceptor components of the molecules, helping them in effective charge transport within their structures.
Attributed to the A2 acceptors, the performed quantum chemical computations of the newly proposed molecules were seen to be rather substantially improved when compared to the reference.
In addition, their calculated PCE factors with PC61BM acceptor, i.e., open circuit photo-voltage, light harvesting efficiencies, and fill factor, were also transparently boosted.
With its highest dihedral angle, SDP, and MPP, this molecule while retaining its planar identity maintained discrete acceptor and donor regions in its structure, which helped it in lowering its exciton binding energy in gas phase (0.15 eV), increasing its dipole moment in both DCM (14.7530 D) and gas (11.7339 D) phase, as well as reducing its required λe (0.10368 eV).
In addition, attributed to the strongly electron-withdrawing peripheral (A2) acceptors of D4, this molecule had the most highly stabilized FMOs amongst all, due to which it showed the lowest band-gap (1.62 eV), the highest VOC (1.39 V), and the maximum IP and EA of 5.99 and 320 eV, respectively.
Most importantly, due to the highly conjugated cyano and acetyl groups in its added acceptor, D4 demonstrated the highest λmax of 876 nm in DCM and 802 nm in gas phase, and the lowest excitation energies of 1.47 eV in gas phase and 1.36 nm in the DCM solvent.
In short, the strategy of adding new acceptor groups in the reference molecule has provided us with quite effective molecules, with D4 being the most effective one of all.
Based on the photo-physical data and the redox properties, it is possible to hypothesize that a photo-induced electron-transfer process can take place in the devices, involving the excited state of the BODIPY as a donor and the TiO2 layer as an electron acceptor.
Core substituted PDIs are prominent n-type semiconductor materials that could be used as non-fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaics.
In the field of organic photovoltaics, many efforts focused on the development of more efficient electron-donors or electron-acceptors, the control and stabilization of their morphology and new device architectures have provided power conversion efficiency (PCE) up to 16% [14,15].
Concerning the electron acceptors, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have shown a dramatic increase on the OPVs efficiency [10,11,16].
Bay substitution with various groups (donor or acceptor type) has a stronger effect on the optical and electronic properties improving also the solubility of the PDI, giving the possibility to tune the dye’s properties [25,26].
Generally, quinolines were shown as electron-transport molecules and have been studied by our group combined with fullerene derivatives, as electron acceptor materials or additives for OPVs [32,33,34].
Quinolines are consider to be molecules with electron acceptor character, providing also good electron transport characteristics that could be beneficial.
Herein, we combined the quinoline molecules with a non-fullerene acceptor, perylene diimide, in order to evaluate the effect on its optical and electronic properties.
Quinoline pyridine derivative consider to possess electron acceptor character and has been used previously in donor–acceptor copolymers for non-covalent interactions with fullerene species [34].
The HOMO energy levels were calculated from LUMO levels and the optical bandgap due to strong n-type characteristics of the synthesized acceptors from the equation Eopt = HOMO-LUMO.
The LUMO energy levels of the widely used fullerenes such as PCBM are known to be around −4.0 eV so these molecules could be appropriate candidates to act as electron accepting materials with a variety of electron donors, matching carefully their energy levels in order to find the most efficient combination.
The excitonic nature of organic semiconductors (OSCs), namely, the generation of bound electron–hole pairs instead of free charges upon photon absorption, has been attributed to their low dielectric constant.1−4 Koster et al.5 argued that high dielectric constant OSCs can reduce the exciton binding energy and consequently increase the efficiency of organic photovoltaics (OPVs), provided that the energy offset required to enable charge transfer between acceptor and donor is minimized.
The power conversion efficiency of organic photovoltaic cells depends crucially on the morphology of their donor–acceptor heterostructure.
Here we report that the desired interpenetrating heterostructure with built-in phase contiguity can be fabricated by acceptor doping into a lightly crosslinked polymer donor network.
For the regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene):phenyl-C61-butyrate methyl ester donor–acceptor model system, we obtained 20% improvement in power conversion efficiency over conventional demixed biblend devices.
Detailed analysis of the power conversion, power absorbed and internal quantum efficiency landscapes reveals the separate contributions of optical interference and donor–acceptor morphology effects.The conversion efficiency of organic solar cells depends on the shape of the interface between their donor and acceptor components.
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of donor–acceptor (DA) photovoltaic (PV) cells depends on the spectral absorption and the bias-dependent internal quantum efficiency of the cell12.
The ideal morphology is widely believed to comprise donor and acceptor phases intimately mixed at the exciton diffusion length scale (~10 nm), but contiguously extended over the much larger photoactive layer thickness (100–250 nm).
We report here that by infiltrating or doping the molecular acceptor into a lightly crosslinked polymer donor network, the ideal interpenetrating DA heterostructure can be closely approached.
The P3HT donor film is crosslinked and developed with CB as described above.
The PCBM acceptor is then doped into this polymer network by spinning from solution.
The blue shift arises from (i) disordering of a fraction of the P3HT segments owing to acceptor incorporation and (ii) redistribution of chain segments from in-plane to out-of-plane orientations.
This is caused by the very imbalanced donor and acceptor phase ratio.
The novelty of this work lies in the demonstration that high ηint (and PCE) can be achieved consistently across a wide swathe of (dP3HT, dPCBM) space using a simple method of PCBM acceptor doping into a lightly crosslinked P3HT donor polymer matrix, in which phase connectivity and length scale are preset by the crosslink density.
Finally, it appears that not only molecular acceptors but monomers, oligomers and nanorods may also be infiltrated into the crosslinked networks.
High internal quantum efficiency in fullerene solar cells based on crosslinked polymer donor networks.
Two benzothiadiazole (BT)-based small-molecule donors, SM-BT-2OR with alkoxy side chain and SM-BT-2F with fluorine atom substitution, were designed and synthesized for investigating the effect of the substituents on the photovoltaic performance of the donor molecules in all small molecule organic solar cells (SM-OSCs).
When blending with n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) acceptor IDIC, the as-cast devices displayed similar PCE values of 2.33 and 2.76% for the SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F-based devices, respectively.
Our results reveal that for the SM-OSCs, the substituent groups of small molecule donors have great impact on the film morphology, as well as the photovoltaic performance.
In recent years, bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) that use small-molecule n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) as acceptor have gained significant progress (Lin and Zhan, 2014; Nielsen et al., 2015).
The rapid development of OSCs is a combination of the innovation of donor and acceptor photovoltaic materials, the methodology of morphology tuning and the optimization of device structures (Lee et al., 2008; Hau et al., 2010; Huang et al., 2014; Wang and Kyaw, 2014; Ye et al., 2014; Gao et al., 2015; Lin and Zhan, 2016; Zhang et al., 2016; Yan et al., 2017).
Especially, great improvement of the OSCs has been achieved by the development of wide bandgap conjugated polymer donors and narrow bandgap n-OS small-molecule acceptors (Bin et al., 2016a; Sun et al., 2018).
Although small-molecule p-type organic semiconductor (p-OS) donors, compared with polymer donors, possess the advantages of well-defined chemical structures and easy purification, the photovoltaic performance of the all small molecules OSCs (SM-OSCs) is relatively lag behind, because of its more difficult morphology tuning than polymer donor/n-OS acceptor system (Yang et al., 2017; Shi et al., 2018).
In the donor-acceptor (D-A) structured p-type semiconductor donor materials, benzothiadiazole (BT) unit is a widely used acceptor (A) building block, due to its superior advantages of planar structure and low-lying energy level (Lin and Zhan, 2016).
adjusted alkyl chain lengths of BT-based polymer donor (PffBT4T-C9C13) and the PffBT4T-C9C13-based OSCs fabricated with a hydrocarbon solvents demonstrate a superior performance (Zhao et al., 2016).
Then they designed another BT-based polymer donor P3TEA which demonstrated an efficient OSC with a negligible driving force when blending with a non-fullerene acceptor, SF-PDI2 (Liu et al., 2016).
Beside polymer donors, BT unit has been widely used in constructing small molecule semiconductor p-OS donors.
have systematically investigated BT-based donor-acceptor-donor-acceptor-donor (D-A-D-A-D) type small molecule donor materials (Coughlin et al., 2014).
Considering the effective role of side chain engineering in morphology tuning, in order to study the relationship between device performance of the SM-OSCs and molecular structures, herein two BT-based small-molecule donors, SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F (see Figure 1), were designed and synthesized for comparison studies.
When blending with n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) acceptor IDIC, the as cast devices for both small molecules donors showed similar PCE values.
Chemical structures of small molecule donors SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F.
Synthetic routes of small molecule donors SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F.
The reverse trends of the TA treatment on the PCE and Voc of the devices could be related to the different substituents of the donor molecules.
Both of the two small molecule-based devices demonstrate broad photo-response from 300 to 800 nm, which indicates that both the small molecule donors and the IDIC acceptor make contributions to the photo current.
In addition, we want to mention that the GIWAXS results show weak face-on stacking, which is also observed for other SM-OSCs based on small molecule donor and small molecule acceptor (Bin et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2017).
In order to further improve photovoltaic performance of the SM-OSCs, we should do more work on the morphology optimization of the blend active layer of the p-type small molecule donor and n-type small molecule acceptor.
It should also be mentioned that differing from most other fluorine-containing donor materials SM-BT-2F based device displayed inferior FF and photovoltaic performance, which could be ascribed to the too large phase separation and unsatisfactory molecular orientation of SM-BT-2F.
In summary, two benzothiadiazole based small-molecule donors, SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F, were designed and synthesized for investigating the effect of the substituents on the photovoltaic performance of the molecules.
When blending with n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) acceptor IDIC, the as-cast devices displayed similar PCE values of 2.33 and 2.76% for the SM-BT-2OR and SM-BT-2F-based devices, respectively.
On the other hand, the good crystallinity often disturbs the miscibility of donor and acceptor materials, that is necessary for effective charge generation in OPVs.
BP is one of the superior and promising p-type organic semiconductors with high crystallinity and several groups reported the improvement of the miscibility of BP and acceptor materials by the derivatization of BP and PC61BM, as described in Introduction.
However, it is important to improve the PCE performance without changing the chemical structure of BP and PC61BM, a standard combination, to give the general and universal information about the additive effect of connected donor–acceptor molecule to i-layer in small molecular OPVs.
Free charge generation in donor-acceptor (D-A) based organic photovoltaic diodes (OPV) progresses through formation of charge-transfer (CT) and charge-separated (CS) states and excitation decay to the triplet level is considered as a terminal loss.
In OPVs that are generally composed of electron donating and electron accepting constituents the requirement of charge transfer across the heterojunction means significant quenching of the photoluminescence takes place and therefore it is not surprising that most organic donor-acceptor analogues are poor emitters.
For photocurrent generation through triplet state an electron acceptor with electron affinity significantly lower than T1 of rubrene is desired.
As this recombination route is expected to increase the overall triplet population in donor, the voltage point at which sufficient free charges end-up in triplets will impose an energetic limit on the open-circuit voltage creation in OPV systems.
A conceptually similar yet fundamentally different approach, based on thermally assisted delayed fluorescence (TADF) in spatially separated donor-acceptor moieties, that permits reverse intersystem crossing from T1 to S1 has been successful in increasing the efficiency of OLEDs32.
Efficient charge photogeneration in conjugated polymers typically requires the presence of a second component to act as electron acceptor.
Here, we report a novel low band-gap conjugated polymer with a donor/orthogonal acceptor motif: poly-2,6-(4,4-dihexadecyl-4H-cyclopenta [2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene)-alt-2,6-spiro [cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene-4,9′-fluorene]-2′,7′-dicarbonitrile, referred to as PCPDT-sFCN.
The role of the orthogonal acceptor is to spatially isolate the LUMO from the HOMO, allowing for negligible exchange energy between electrons in these orbitals and minimising the energy gap between singlet and triplet charge transfer states.
We employ ultrafast and microsecond transient absorption spectroscopy to demonstrate that, even in the absence of a separate electron acceptor, PCPDT-sFCN shows efficient charge photogeneration in both pristine solution and film.
Remarkably, the free charges that form via the charge transfer state are extraordinarily long-lived with millisecond lifetimes, possibly due to the stabilisation imparted by the spatial separation of PCPDT-sFCN's donor and orthogonal acceptor motifs.
The efficient generation of long-lived charge carriers in a pristine polymer paves the way for single-material applications such as organic photovoltaics and photodetectors.The spatial separation of PCPDT-sFCN's donor and orthogonal acceptor motifs allows efficient photogeneration of extraordinarily long-lived charge carriers in the pristine polymer, providing an important step towards single-material optoelectronics.
Charge photogeneration in organic photovoltaics generally requires a bulk heterojunction containing both an electron donor and acceptor, in order to overcome the binding energy of the photoexcited exciton.
This is the case even for the highest efficiency organic photovoltaic devices, which incorporate novel non-fullerene acceptors.1,2 Although highly efficient charge photogeneration can be achieved using this bulk heterojunction configuration, it is accompanied by a host of other issues: energy losses,3 morphology variations,4 miscibility,5 stability,6 and added fabrication complexity.
Triplet states are a key species that commonly form during the operation of organic electronic devices such as light emitting diodes and solar cells.12 Although traditionally seen as a loss mechanism in organic photovoltaics (OPV), the unique properties of triplets are increasingly being manipulated to enhance device efficiencies through strategies such as singlet fission13–15 and up-conversion.16,17 Triplets are also of significant value in organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs)18 and bio-applications.19 Indeed, interest in triplet states has been mounting owing to their recently discovered prevalence in highly efficient non-fullerene acceptor OPV blends.20 Of particular importance, therefore, is the interplay between triplets and charges.
There are three primary mechanisms by which donor or acceptor triplet states form in an organic solar cell: intersystem crossing (ISC), back electron transfer from a spin-mixing charge transfer (CT) state,21 and via bimolecular recombination of free carriers.22 The rate of ISC is dictated by the size of the spin–orbit coupling and the energy gap between the singlet and triplet states involved, ΔEST.
ΔEST is typically large for conjugated polymers, on the order of 0.7 eV.12 A large exchange energy is not ideal for an organic solar cell as it creates deep triplet levels on either the donor or acceptor that can lead to preferential triplet formation instead of the desired charge carrier formation.8 Conversely, a small exchange energy has the potential advantage of allowing triplet recycling via reverse intersystem crossing (RISC).23 Reducing ΔEST is also important for thermally activated delayed fluorescence (TADF), a key strategy for enhancing OLED efficiencies.24–26
Pursuing strategies familiar to these TADF small molecules, we previously synthesised conjugated polymers with significantly reduced ΔEST.27 This was accomplished by changing the standard alternating donor–acceptor copolymer structure to a situation where the electron acceptor moiety is located physically orthogonal to the donor backbone.
Poly-2,6-(4,4-dihexadecyl-4H-cyclopenta [2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene)-alt-2,6-spiro [cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene-4,9′-fluorene]-2′,7′-dicarbonitrile, referred to as PCPDT-sFCN (structure shown in Scheme 1), is comprised of an electron rich donor backbone in combination with a dicyano-substituted spirobifluorene, which is located orthogonal to the main backbone.
The CPDT backbone used here is well known for its role as the donor component in the intensively studied low band gap D-A polymer PCDTBT.28–30
These CT states dissociate into extraordinarily long-lived free charges due to the spatial separation of PCPDT-sFCN's donor and orthogonal acceptor motifs.
However, it is possible that a weak CT absorption from the donor to the orthogonal acceptor moiety is found beneath or to the red of the broad 550 nm peak.1 The 550 nm absorption does not show prominent vibronic structure, illustrating a large energetic dispersity that may indicate a broad distribution of polymer conformations.
Given the red-shifted nature and similarity to other examples in the literature33,34 – including other orthogonal acceptor polymers27 – this could indicate the presence of very weak CT exciton emission at 720 nm.
radical cation or anion), as the power law decay exhibited at later times (>40 μs) is generally observed for bimolecular recombination of long-lived, free charges (polarons) in donor/acceptor thin films.37,38 Fitting a power-law to the long-lived component of the pristine PCPDT-sFCN solution kinetic decays yields an average exponent of α = 0.38, a similar value to many polymer/acceptor blend films.29,39 This indicates an aggregated, amorphous environment for these PCPDT-sFCN charges in solution, which leads to relatively energetically deep trap states.
To investigate the polaron formation in PCPDT-sFCN further, a blend film of PCPDT-sFCN with the well-known acceptor PC60BM was examined (Fig.
Alternatively, the ultrafast triplet formation could be occurring via singlet–triplet ISC between the initially excited 1LE and the 3CT states.51,52 This ISC process can be highly efficient, particularly in the case where the energy gap between the states is small and the acceptor's molecular orbitals are found near perpendicular to the donor's: the spin-flip can be coupled to a large change in orbital angular momentum and therefore conserve overall angular momentum.53 This ISC process has been observed previously in small molecule and polymeric D-o-A systems and has been invoked to describe the mechanism via which they undergo TADF.54
A remarkable observation was the relatively efficient charge generation occurring in dilute PCPDT-sFCN solution (50 μg mL−1), and in the absence of a separate electron acceptor.
This is highly unusual because conjugated polymers in solution often display only triplet formation,32 and for those that are capable of charge generation in solution or pristine films, these charges generally decay on nanosecond timescales due to rapid geminate recombination.9 The charge generation process in the pristine polymer solution is likely aided by the strongly intramolecular donor/acceptor nature of PCPDT-sFCN, providing significant charge-transfer character to the lowest energy singlet state.
Such efficient formation of long-lived charge carriers usually only occurs in the presence of a separate electron acceptor, with the accompanying blend morphology variations and stability concerns, additional fabrication complexity, and energy losses.
In contrast, PCPDT-sFCN can overcome its own exciton binding energy to a significant extent without the need for a separate electron acceptor (although charge photogeneration is enhanced even further when an acceptor is present).
The extraordinarily long-lived charge carriers in pristine PCPDT-sFCN thus demonstrate that the orthogonal acceptor strategy has significant potential for single-material optoelectronic applications, such as organic photovoltaics and photodetectors.
8) reveals that pristine PCPDT-sFCN polarons have a very similar millisecond lifetime to the polarons in the two donor/acceptor blends.
This observation is particularly remarkable because both P3HT : PC60BM and PDTSiTTz : PC60BM exhibit strong non-Langevin behaviour,56,57 with significantly supressed charge carrier recombination: as such, their polarons are significantly longer-lived than in most other donor/acceptor blends.
One of the key features of the donor-orthogonal-acceptor architecture (D-o-A) is the reduced spatial overlap between the frontier molecular orbitals, which is a consequence of the physical separation of the donor and acceptor units.
While the existence of 1CT/3CT equilibria is not new in organic electronics materials,58–60 this is, to our knowledge, the first time it has been successfully combined with an orthogonal acceptor to enable long-lived charge carrier populations, particularly in the pristine material.
A low band-gap conjugated polymer with a donor-orthogonal acceptor motif, PCPDT-sFCN, was synthesized and investigated using a combination of spectroscopic techniques.
The orthogonal acceptor spatially isolated the LUMO from the HOMO, allowing isoenergetic singlet and triplet charge transfer states.
A rich photophysical mechanism was uncovered with important implications for the future utilisation of the orthogonal acceptor strategy.
The charge transfer states are then able to dissociate into free charges relatively easily due to the spatial separation of PCPDT-sFCN's donor and orthogonal acceptor motifs, which may also assist in inhibiting bimolecular recombination.
The orthogonal acceptor strategy therefore combines facile charge generation with a reservoir of excited states from which long-lived charges can be created, offering a new design rule for future improvements in optoelectronics, particularly for the development of single-material devices.
AbstractHerein, we describe the synthesis and characterization of a conjugated donor–acceptor copolymer consisting of a pyrrolopyridazinedione (PPD) acceptor unit, and a benzodithiophene (BDT) donor unit.
Tetrazines are highly electron-deficient acceptor units and several donor–acceptor (D–A) copolymers have been already successfully realized [1–7].
In this novel acceptor unit, solubilising alkyl chains of different lengths can be introduced and copolymers with this acceptor unit led to excellent efficiencies of over 8% without requiring processing additives or additional processing steps such as thermal annealing.
Based on a recent report on tetrazine-based copolymers [2], benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) turned out to be a promising donor unit for the combination with the prepared PPD acceptor [10].
In addition to conjugated polymers [17], also small molecular donors like p-DTS(FBTTh2)2 can be used as organic matrix [18] and the prepared solar cells exhibit good long-term stability [19].
The performance of PPD–BDT in organic bulk heterojunction solar cells was investigated using PC70BM as acceptor and the solar cells were prepared in an inverted architecture (glass/ITO/ZnO/PPD–BDT—PC70BM/MoO3/Ag).
Furthermore, we evaluated the performance of the prepared PPD–BDT in hybrid solar cells in combination with CIS nanocrystals, which are promising inorganic non-fullerene acceptors due to the fact that all required elements are abundant and the nanoparticle synthesis can be straightforwardly performed using the in situ approach outlined in the introduction.
Strongly electron-deficient, thiophene-flanked 6-alkylpyrrolo[3,4-d]pyridazine-5,7-dione (PPD) was synthesized and successfully incorporated in alternating D–A copolymers in combination with a benzodithophene (BDT) donor using Stille cross-coupling polymerization.
The energy offset between donor and acceptor has to be regarded separately for standing and lying films.
The HOMO level offset between donor and acceptor in the blend is 0.6 eV.
The present analysis of the interface between H16CuPc and F16CuPc was also motivated to better understand the behaviour of photovoltaic cells containing these materials as donor and acceptor, and their function as charge generation layer.
The photovoltaic gap (EPVG) as difference between the HOMO level onset of the donor and the LUMO level onset of the acceptor determines the upper limit of the open circuit voltage in organic solar cells35152535455.
Therefore, a low energy gap between the LUMO level onset of the acceptor and the HOMO level onset of the donor is necessary to allow for the tunnelling of electrons from the HOMO of the donor to the LUMO of the acceptor under reverse bias57.
The effect of the pp–GT encapsulation on solution-processed OPV devices based on a blend of electron donor material poly[2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl[4,4-bis(2-ethyl- hexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl]] (PCPDTBT) and electron acceptor material [6,6]-phenyl C70 butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM) was studied.
reported a novel carbazole-based double branched dye DCBZ that contained red absorbing cationic indolium acceptor, and obtained enhanced PCE in p-DSSCs compared to corresponding single branched dye and reference C343.
In this work, the photovoltaic performance of blade‐coated devices was studied based on the promising polymer:polymer system PBDB‐T and PF5‐Y5 as donor and acceptor, respectively.
High‐throughput screening: Less than 25 mg of the donor and acceptor materials are used to make over 648 devices in a combinatorial screening method that investigates processing parameters for blade‐coated polymer:polymer photovoltaics.
[ 1 ,  2 ] All‐polymer solar cells (all‐PSCs) have attracted increasing attention in the OPV field, as they exhibit several advantages with respect to polymer donor:small molecular acceptor solar cells, such as better thermal and mechanical stability, as well as improved processing versatility for up‐scaling.
[ 5 ,  7 ,  8 ] For many combinations, the lower performance is mainly due to the formation of non‐optimal film morphologies, and in some cases, lower absorption coefficients than state‐of‐the‐art molecular acceptors, such as O‐IDTBR ((5Z,5′Z)‐5,5′‐((7,7′‐(4,4,9,9‐tetraoctyl‐4,9‐dihydro‐s‐indaceno[1,2‐b:5,6‐b′]dithiophene‐2,7‐diyl)bis(benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole‐7,4‐diyl))bis(methanylylidene))bis(3‐ethyl‐2‐thioxothiazolidin‐4‐one)) or ITIC (3,9‐bis(2‐methylene‐(3‐(1,1‐dicyanomethylene)‐indanone))‐5,5,11,11‐tetrakis(4‐hexylphenyl)‐dithieno[2,3‐d:2’,3’‐d’]‐s‐indaceno[1,2‐b:5,6‐b’]dithiophene), [9]  and to lower charge carrier mobilities (electrons especially).
The lower electron mobility issue has been addressed by designing polymer acceptors based on naphthalene diimide (NDI) like P(NDI2OD‐T2) (commercially known as N2200)(Poly{[N,N′‐bis(2‐octyldodecyl)naphthalene‐1,4,5,8‐bis(dicarboximide)‐2,6‐diyl]‐alt‐5,5′‐(2,2′‐bithiophene)),[ 7 ,  10 ,  11 ] or perylene diimide (PDI),[ 12 ,  13 ] and lately on novel non‐fullerene acceptor (NFA) molecules,[ 8 ,  14 ,  15 ] like the polymer used in this work, PF5‐Y5 (see Figure 1 for the structure).
[16]  The electron mobility of the latter has been reported to be 3.18×10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1, very close to the mobility of Y5 small‐molecule acceptor (3.82×10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1), which acts as the electron‐deficient unit for PF5‐Y5, and higher than ITIC (3.58×10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1), one of the more widely used NFAs.
[17]  Moreover, PF5‐Y5 displays an improved absorption coefficient compared to its small‐molecule acceptor counterpart Y5.
[ 18 ,  19 ] A stronger π‐orbital overlap at the donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces is formed when the polymer donor and the polymer acceptor are aligned face‐to‐face, thereby reducing the exciton binding energy and promoting the formation of free charge carriers in all‐PSCs.
Interestingly, at D/A ratio 1 : 4, devices with thicker active layer show higher EQE in the donor region than the acceptor region.
The PL images show position‐dependent integrated intensity for two PL bands, one centered at 690 nm and the other one at 840 nm, corresponding to PL from the donor and acceptor materials, respectively (see Figure S3).
For the best device fabricated with each solvent (PCE in parentheses), left to right: comparison of the different spectra obtained in high‐resolution Raman imaging; 100× microscopy image of the mapped zone; Raman mapping of the components, with acceptor‐rich areas in red.
Last plot is the reference Raman spectra of pure donor and pure acceptor.
The Raman analysis shows that there are indeed variations in the local composition, specifically at defects and/or crystallites, that are in most cases, very rich in acceptor.
This is consistent with the stronger tendency to crystallize for PF5‐Y5 compared to the donor polymer, as reported in the literature by means of GIWAXS (Grazing‐Incidence Wide‐Angle X‐ray Scattering).
The importance of the solvent selection is exemplified with the appearance of large, micron‐sized aggregates of the acceptor (PF5‐Y5), which are either present in the solution or generated while depositing the layer and are detrimental to the performance of the device.
Further improvements in efficiency could be achieved with the enhanced interaction between the donor and acceptor components.
The incorporation of both donor and acceptor type semiconductors in the photoabsorption layer is the most common strategy, as it can split excitons more efficiently than single layer photovoltaic cells.
This idea started with the phenomenal work by Tang in 1986, where he demonstrated efficient charge separation at the donor-acceptor interface (bilayer architecture), yielding a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 1% [22].
Intermixing of donor and acceptor was proposed as a plausible solution to solve this problem as the thickness of the light absorbing material can be 100 nm or above but the creation of nanodomains of the order of 10–20 nm facilitates efficient dissociation of the generated excitons to charge carriers (holes and electrons).
These charges can travel to the respective electrodes (holes to the anode and electrons to the cathode) through the interpenetrating donor/acceptor network with minimum recombination.
The donors used in BHJ solar cells are normally pi-conjugated small molecules, oligomers or polymers and commonly used acceptors are soluble derivatives of fullerene such as phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM; Figure 1b) and phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM; Figure 1c).
The major requirement of the donor is to have an optical band gap in the visible range of the solar spectrum.
Light falling on the active layer is therefore efficiently absorbed by the donor and leads to the generation of highly energetic excitons (ca.
For the efficient diffusion and dissociation of excitons and the transport of charge carriers, the active layer should have a bicontinuous interpenetrating network of donors and acceptors with a minimum number of defect sites.
Hydrogen-bonding is directional in nature and hence the hydrogen-bond donor, the hydrogen atom and the hydrogen-bond acceptor should lie in the same line for obtaining strong bonds.
The “Jorgensen model” states that the total hydrogen bond should be more stable when all the protons of the H-bond donor-acceptor pairs are arranged in the same direction.
Scientists have made attempts to incorporate the above mentioned supramolecular interactions into organic molecules for solar cell applications to achieve control on morphology via optimized nanodomains resulting in precise bicontinuous donor-acceptor networks and improved stability.
In the following sections, we will discuss those works which have highlighted the self-assembly of donors and/or acceptors using non-covalent forces for solar cell applications.
The authors have also investigated the photovoltaic properties of the self-assembled molecules by mixing with PC61BM as an electron acceptor.
The incorporation of non-self-complementary hydrogen bonding motifs present in melamine/barbituric acid moieties is found to be an excellent tool to control the geometries of electron donors and acceptors.
Photovoltaic devices were fabricated using 2 as a donor and a complementary fullerene-substituted barbituric acid derivative (4) as an acceptor.
Use of electron deficient, self-complementary hydrogen-bonding units incorporated as an acceptor in “push–pull” p-type small molecules were proposed as another method to enhance the efficiency of photovoltaic devices.
Kumar and co-workers have reported a comparison study of two such donor–acceptor small molecules, 5 [50] and 6 (without and with self-complementary hydrogen-bonding units), as given in Figure 4a [51].
Both molecules possess cyanopyridone moiety as the acceptor motif, where the nitrogen is alkylated with a 2-ethylhexyl substituent in 5, which masks the possibility of self-assembly while it is free or unmasked in the case of 6.
Upon fabrication of BHJ cells using 1:1 mixture of donor and acceptor (PC61BM), 6 gave an efficiency of 2.40% at a concentration of 10 mg/mL, whereas, 5 yielded an efficiency of 2.25% at a higher concentration of 20 mg/mL.
They have synthesized symmetric (7, 8) and asymmetric (9, 10) donor molecules (Figure 5a) to study the effect of H-bonding on the active layer morphology.
Devices from 7 to 8 were fabricated from chlorobenzene (CB) using PC71BM as the acceptor with a blend ratio of 1:1.
Upon fabrication of BHJ solar cells using a blend of 17 as donor and PC61BM as an acceptor (1:1) yielded a PCE of 2.98% without any thermal treatment.
In order to improve the phase separation of fullerene acceptor with a polymeric donor such as poly(3-hexylthiophene) or P3HT (18), Li et al.
The oligomer had a donor-acceptor-donor (D-A-D) structure with pyran-barbituric acid as the central core.
They made six dithienosilole-based donors (24–29) consisting of different end groups (esters and amides) and alkyl side chains (n-octyl, n-decyl, and 2-ethylhexyl chains) as shown in Figure 11a [58].
Two donors 30 and 31 with a D-A-D structure involving isoindigo (IsI) as a central acceptor block and benzofuran (30) and dithienopyrrole (31) as a side donor unit were synthesized (Figure 12).
BHJ devices were prepared by spin-casting active films from a chlorobenzene solution of donor/PC61BM (1:2 w/w).
Stronger aggregation and large-scale phase separation were seen with 34 as the acceptor resulting in much lower efficiencies.
The molecules were end-functionalized with various acceptors such as triphenylamine (39), BDT (40), and pyrene (41).
Due to the low-lying LUMO and high electron mobilities, perylenediimide (PDI) derivatives have been extensively used as an acceptor in OSCs for more than a decade [68,69].
This novel idea was then used to develop BHJ solar cells for which they synthesized three PDI derivatives 49, 50 and 51 with hexyl, phenethyl and phenyl side chains, respectively as acceptors and 52 as the donor polymer (Figure 18) [74].
Comparison of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of 53 and 54 with that of PC61BM and 18 (P3HT) revealed that, in principle, both of them can act as donors to PC61BM and acceptors to 18.
The shallower HOMO and LUMO of 53 (compared to 54) made it better electron donor to PC61BM, whereas, deeper HOMO and LUMO of 54 are helpful for accepting electrons from 18 (Figure 19b).
Depicted by DFT, XRD, thermogravimetry analysis (TGA) and UV-vis absorption studies, 53 has a coplanar structure, whereas, 54 consists of an out-of-plane isoxazolone acceptor.
Several “star-shaped” donors with complex architectures (C-3 symmetric or tripodal) capable of forming self-assembled structures have been reported for photovoltaic applications with efficiencies surpassing 4% [76,77].
Very recently, they have designed and synthesized tripodal donor molecules, 55 (with 2-ethylhexyl) and 56 (with dodecyl), where electron-donating triphenylamine functions as the donor core and DPP units flanked by thiophene groups chosen as the chromophoric “arms” (Figure 20a).
This was attributed to two reasons; PC71BM disrupt the stacking of the donor and the use of highly volatile solvent chloroform did not provide the molecules enough time to stack efficiently.
Solar cells were fabricated containing 55 and 56 using optimized weight ratios of donor/PC71BM of 1:3 and 1:2, respectively.
In 2009, research groups of Würthner and Thelakkat made a nanostructured donor-acceptor interface of an n-type organogelator (57) with a p-type polymer (58) by combining hydrogen bonding and pi-pi stacking interactions, Figure 21a [79,80,81].
The presence of polymer also prevents the formation of thicker gel strands resulting in high donor-acceptor interface.
These wires, with a grooved exterior, are known to provide high interfacial contact between donor and acceptor components [82].
They later changed the acceptor to PC71BM, obtained an efficiency of 0.48% at 90 °C.
The fabricated devices of the nanowires with PC71BM (1:1 wt %) as acceptor showed an optimized efficiency up to 0.53%, which was significantly higher than those of devices prepared by simple mixing of donor and acceptor molecules.
Therefore, synergistic action of hydrogen bonds and pi-pi stacking in donor molecules that created long nanowires by self-assembly results in devices that are more efficient than those built with analogous donor molecules containing only the conjugated structure.
Solar cells were fabricated using 63 and 64 as donors and PC61BM as acceptor.
Three of them are based on symmetrical and unsymmetrical regiochemistries of the acceptor, [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-c]pyridine (PT; 72–74) [91,92,93].
75 has 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT) acceptor as the core (Figure 26).
Construction of supramolecular side-chain polymers via association of proton acceptor (H-acceptor) polymers with low-bandgap proton donor (H-donor) dyes is a strategy adopted by many leading research groups for developing materials for photovoltaic applications.
prepared a number of such polymers by mixing pyridyl pendant containing H-acceptor polymers (76, 77) with low-bandgap H-donor dyes bearing terminal cyanoacrylic acids (78–81) in a molar ratio of 1:1 (Figure 27) [95].
Bulk-heterojunction solar devices were fabricated using the H-bonded polymer complexes as donor and PC61BM as an acceptor in the wt ratio of 1:1.
The same group reported a similar work in 2010, in which a series of H-bonded cross-linking polymers were prepared by complexing with fluorene based H-acceptor polymer and carbazole based H-donor dyes.
The H-donors composed of 3,6- and 2,7-functionalized electron-donating carbazole cores flanked by symmetrical thiophene linkers and cyanoacrylic acid as the end group (83–86) are shown in Figure 28.
The H-acceptor polymer consists of side-chain carrying pyridyl pendants (82) [96].
DFT calculations have predicted that the carbazole units of H-donor are co-planar with the pi-spacer (conjugated thiophenes) and cyanoacrylic acids in the dyes.
As in the previous case, BHJ photovoltaic devices were fabricated using H-bonded polymers as donors and PC61BM as the acceptor.
For the 89/91 system, large domains of 91 (50–100 nm) were observed, which reduce the donor-acceptor interface available for charge separation and results in low device efficiency.
The PCEs of fabricated devices, where the active layer was composed of supramolecular polymer networks as electron donors and PC71BM as an electron acceptor in the ratio 1:1 were found to be 0.97% and 0.68%, respectively.
It was obvious that the devices of 10:8:0 performed well due to the ‘three-point’ complementary interactions present in the donor/acceptor moieties.
Very recently, they reported the photovoltaic properties of a supramolecular BCP consisting of donor, poly (3-hexylthiophene) and acceptor, poly(2,7-(9′,9′-dioctyl-fluorene)-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)) conjugated polymers connected through self-associating ureido-pyrimidinone hydrogen bonding units (Figure 33) [115].
Interestingly, when the donor/acceptor weight ratio was changed to 1:1, the efficiency was dropped to 1.1% without PFN and 1.8% with PFN.
have reported that a low-bandgap polymer, poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-alt-3-fluoro thieno [3,4-b] thiophene-2-carboxylate] (106) as the electron donor[119] and poly[[N,N′-bis(2-octyl dodecyl)- napthalene-1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5′-(2,2′-bithiophene)] (107) as the acceptor[120] for BHJ solar cells [121].
Both donor and acceptor have large pi-plane to facilitate better stacking.
In order to understand the real potential, photovoltaic cells were fabricated with blends of donor/acceptor polymers (1.3:1).
The authors fabricated BHJ solar cells consisting of poly(3-hexylthiophene) (18) as donor and NDI copolymers (108, 109) as acceptors (Figure 37).
Limiting pi-stacking through the use of covalently fixed twisted dimers and bulky side chains are effective in non-fullerene acceptors.
Solution-processable D−π–A−π–D structured two organic small molecules bearing thienyl diketopyrrolopyrrole (TDPP) and furanyl diketopyrrolopyrrole (FDPP) as central acceptor units and cyano on the π-bridge and phenothiazine as the terminal donor units, coded as TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN, are designed and synthesized.
Solution-processed organic solar cells (OSCs) were constructed with these molecules as the donors and phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester as the acceptor yielding power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of 4.0% for FDPP-PTCN and 5.2% for TDPP-PTCN, which is the highest PCE reported so far from the small molecular DPP–phenothiazine-based architecture for solution-based OSCs.
The research related to solution-processed bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) comprising narrow band gap polymer or small molecule as electron donor and fullerene derivative as acceptor has led to considerable improvement in terms of device performance in past decades.1−6 When we compare the polymeric donor materials with small molecule donor, the polymeric donor counterparts have shown better film-forming features.7 Apart from the morphological advantage, polymer semiconductors undergo batch-to-batch variations during synthesis, uncertain synthetic reproducibility, and laborious purification procedures.
In contrast, the small molecules provide a number of advantages over polymers.8,9 The power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) up to 10% have recently been achieved from SMD-based solar cells by proper molecular engineering and device optimization.10,11 For high performance of BHJ solar cells, an ideal photoactive donor molecule should have broad light absorption and enhanced light coupling with solar spectrum, proper frontier energy levels, high crystallinity with excellent film morphology, high hole mobility, and good miscibility with electron acceptors.12−14 Typically, SMDs for organic photovoltaics (OPVs) are push–pull chromophores where electron donor and electron acceptor moieties are coupled with each other in conjugated structures to simultaneously obtain reduced band gaps, which results in higher short circuit current density (Jsc) and low-lying highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels, which enhances the open-circuit voltage (Voc).15,16 The aforesaid mentioned properties make small molecules potential donor materials for BHJ solar cell devices.17
The DPP-derived molecules posses several novel properties, like intense light absorption in the visible region, strong electron-withdrawing nature, high co-planarity, easy synthetic protocol, photochemical stability, and high charge carrier mobility.19−26 Because of tunable frontier molecular energy levels, affirmative optoelectronic properties, and compatibility with both of the fullerene and non-fullerene electron acceptors, DPP-based molecules served as promising electron donors.27 DPP moiety has been also used to design non-fullerene acceptors for photovoltaic applications.28,29
Recently, solar cells constructed from SMDs based on D−π–A, D–A–D, D−π–D, A–D–A, and D−π–A−π–D types of design templates with linear, triangular, and cross-shaped geometries have resulted in promising PCEs.17,30,31 The linear D−π–A−π–D-type molecular architecture has attracted immense attention as this structure efficiently reduces the energy band gap of the resultant molecule and tunes the redox properties via intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) among the donor and acceptor moieties.13,32 Maglione et al.
reported SMDs in A–D–A template consisting of DPP as an electron-accepting moiety (A) and PT as an electron-donating group (D), which yielded a PCE of 0.75%.35 The same group subsequently reported a D−π–A−π–D-type SMD consisting of DPP as the electron-withdrawing group, triphenylamine as the electron-donating moiety, and acrylonitrile as π-linkages, which exhibited PCE of 2.9% with relatively higher open-circuit voltage (Voc).36 An NIR absorbing D−π–A−π–D structured DPP-based SMD, coded as DPP–DTF, yielded a PCE of 4.3% in BHJ solar cells.13 An efficiency of 2.2% was obtained from single-component OSC using a DPP-based organic dyad.14 A 1D supramolecular assembly organic gel has also been reported, which was used as an additive in poly({4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl}{3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl})-based OSC and a high PCE of 7.9% was achieved.37 Some representative DPP-based donor molecules are demonstrated with their respective PCEs in Figure 1.32,36,38
Structures of small molecule donors used in this work along with some representative donor molecules.
It is seen that isoelectronic substitution or systematic replacement of heteroatom in the aromatic heterocycle of electron donor not only modulates the electron-donating capacity of the donor molecule, but also potentially enhances its optoelectronic properties, such as optical absorption and charge carrier mobility, which in turn favorably influence the OPV device performance.39,40 Moreover, the thiophene-containing DPP-based conjugated molecules have attracted more attention compared to the furan-containing DPP materials in the area of photonic devices in spite of having matching energy levels and approximate degree of aromaticity of both of the candidates.41
In this paper, we have synthesized two new low band gap SMDs by C–H activation and Suzuki coupling, coded as TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN, with D−π–A−π–D molecular template composed of thienyl diketopyrrolopyrrole (TDPP) and furanyl diketopyrrolopyrrole (FDPP) as central acceptor units and cyano on the π-bridge and PT as the terminal electron donor unit for application in BHJ solar cells (Figure 1, Scheme 1).
In solution state, TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN showed different absorption bands with similar absorption spectra, the maximum absorption (λmax) at 619 nm (ε = 64 489 M–1 cm–1) and 626 nm (ε = 82 676 M–1 cm–1) with the absorption onset (λon) at 667 and 655 nm, respectively, which derives from ICT among the donor and acceptor moieties.
We have also recorded that absorption spectra for the blends with 1:1 and 1:3 ratios of donors and PC71BM, respectively (Figures S1 and S2), are red shifted and covering from 300 to 900 nm.
The energetically favorable frontier energy levels of both the SMDs and PC71BM acceptor provide sufficient driving force for smooth exciton dissociation and successful electron transfer in the blend.
Generally in BHJ OSCs the deeper HOMO level of synthesized donors was advantageous for high Voc, when used as the donor along with PC71BM as an electron acceptor.
In order to scrutinize the charge separation phenomena and photoinduced electron transfer among the TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN donors with PC71BM acceptor, PL quenching was performed in o-dichlorobenzene solution with increasing content of PC71BM.
Figure 6 shows the PL spectra for the pristine SMDs, TDPP-PTCN:PC71BM, and FDPP-PTCN:PC71BM blend solutions by varying the weight ratios of donor–acceptor starting from 1:0 to 1:4.
When the concentration of PC71BM is gradually increased, the intensity of PL peaks at 663 and 654 nm for TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN, respectively, dramatically decreases, which reflects an efficient photoinduced charge separation process in between the donor materials with acceptor PC71BM.38,44 The Stern–Volmer coefficient (Ksv) was calculated from the linearly fitted slope of ηo/η versus c plot, where ηo and η are the emission efficiency in the absence and presence of the quencher, that is, PC71BM, and c is the quencher concentration.
As per the literature, the higher value of Ksv is a sign of efficient charge transfer from donor to acceptor.45Figure S3 shows the PL spectra of TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN with different ratios of PC71BM, which indicate excellent quenching characteristics.
TDPP-PTCN and FDPP-PTCN, devices were constructed using PC71BM as the acceptor material in traditional device architecture of ITO/MoOx (∼10 nm)/SMDs:PC71BM (∼130 nm)/Al (∼100 nm).
These materials have suitable photonic properties, such as near-IR and wide-ranging light absorption in the visible region and suitable FMO levels as electron donors to construct solar cell devices with popular electron acceptor PC71BM.
The new donor molecules possess excellent electron-donating capability as confirmed by PL quenching experiments.
This study demonstrated that PT is a potential electron-donating unit in combination with DPP to make efficient conjugated small molecular donor for solar cell application.
Both the donor compounds and PC71BM were dissolved in chlorobenzene in different donor–acceptor ratios (1:1 to 1:4) to prepare the blend solution.
The donor concentration was kept at 10 mg mL–1.
Finally, the reliable manufacturing and performance of large-scale OPV modules demand a homogenous thickness distribution across the area of the printed layers along with the stable composition of the donor: acceptor (D-A) organic semiconductors.
The photoactive layer of the printed OPVs consisted of a polymer donor (D) and a fullerene derivative acceptor (A) provided in the form of a ready-to-use commercial ink (OET-D2A1) from OET PC.
Isomer-controlled [70]fullerene bis-adducts can achieve high performance as electron-acceptors in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) because of their stronger absorption intensities than [60]fullerene derivatives, higher LUMO energy levels than mono-adducts, and less structural and energetic disorder than random isomer mixtures.
In this study, propylene-tethered cis-1 bismethano[70]fullerene with two methyl, ethyl, phenyl, or thienyl groups were rationally designed and prepared for the first time to investigate the OPV performances with an amorphous conjugated polymer donor (PCDTBT).
cis-1 Isomers of [70]fullerene bis-adducts were utilized as electron-acceptors in organic photovoltaic devices for the first time.
Fullerene derivatives have been widely utilized as electron-acceptors5 because of their reversible reduction behaviors, outstanding electron affinities, and excellent electron-transporting properties originating from their small reorganization energies of electron transfer,6 whereas non-fullerene electron acceptors, exhibiting high power conversion efficiencies (PCEs), have recently emerged as alternatives.7–10
Another strategy for developing high-performance acceptors is the use of fullerene bis-adducts.1,13 By increasing the number of addends from one to two, the degree of π-conjugation is reduced and the energy level of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) is raised.
Since VOC is generally proportional to the energy difference between the LUMO of the electron-acceptor and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the electron-donor,1,2 the rise in the LUMO energy of electron-acceptors improves VOC.
Bis-[6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (bis-[60]PCBM),14 indene-C60 bis-adduct ([60]ICBA),15 and indene-C70 bis-adduct ([70]ICBA)12 are successful examples of fullerene bis-adduct acceptors in OPVs.
1a),17–20 although the differences in reactivity (α > β > γ > δ) and steric hindrance reduce the number of bis-adduct regioisomers actually obtained.21,22 Due to different structural and electronic properties of each regioisomer, disorders in molecular packing and energy levels are found in BHJ films while using the regioisomer mixture, which may deteriorate JSC and FF of BHJ OPV devices.12,14,15 Therefore, the development of regioisomer-controlled acceptors is effective for improving OPV device performance, which has been proven by various examples of regioisomer-free [60]fullerene bis-adducts.23–35
Regioisomer-controlled [70]fullerene bis-adducts are expected to be high-performance acceptors for BHJ OPVs, as is evident from the above argument.
Bis-adducts with methyl, ethyl, phenyl and thienyl groups (Scheme 1) were designed as substituents based on theoretical calculations on the degree of molecular packing (i.e., packing density) and prepared for investigating the substituent effects on film structures and photovoltaic properties of blend films with an amorphous conjugated polymer donor, poly[N-9′-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT).42,43
Densely packed fullerenes in blend films are advantageous over loosely packed ones because the former provides films with higher electron mobilities than the latter.17 This helps achieve higher performance for fullerene acceptor-based OPV devices.
In addition, well-packed fullerenes at the donor–acceptor interface facilitate charge dissociation.44,45 Therefore, optimized structures for solid systems of propylene-tethered bismethano[70]fullerenes with various substituents, i.e., R2-α-1-α-[70]PBC (R = methyl (Me), ethyl (Et), i-propyl (iPr), cyano (CN), phenyl (Ph), thienyl (Th), and pyridyl (Py)) (Fig.
Other bis-adducts, Et2-cis-1-[70]PBC and Ph2-cis-1-[70]PBC, possessed solubilities (11.6 and 13.8 mg mL−1, respectively) sufficient for solution processes, whereas they were much lower than that of a widely used [70]fullerene mono-adduct acceptor, [70]PCBM (62.9 mg mL−1).
Bicontinuous network structures of donor and acceptor domains were poorly formed in PCDTBT : Ph2-cis-1-[70]PBC and PCDTBT : Th2-cis-1-[70]PBC, resulting in inferior JSC and FF values.
As expected, VOC of the OPV with Et2-cis-1-[70]PBC (0.844 V) was slightly higher than that with a prevalent high-performance [70]fullerene acceptor, [70]PCBM (0.831 V) (Table 3), as the result of the elevated LUMO level of Et2-cis-1-[70]PBC by bis-functionalization.
The smoother film surface of PCDTBT : [70]PCBM (rms = 0.35 nm) than that of PCDTBT : Et2-cis-1-[70]PBC (rms = 0.59 nm) indicated the formation of a more suitable bicontinuous donor–acceptor network structure in PCDTBT : [70]PCBM (Fig.
S13(b)†) indicated high efficiency of exciton diffusion to the donor–acceptor interface, the optical microscopy image visualized the existence of micrometer-sized aggregates in PCDTBT : Et2-α-1-α-[70]PBC (Fig.
These results indicate a poorly developed donor–acceptor bicontinuous network structure.
 cis-1 Bis-adduct fullerenes were utilized as electron acceptors in OPV devices for the first time.
Since then, the PCE of OPV devices has been improving steadily through the utilization of new concepts including the bulk heterojunction [6], laminated donor/accepter heterojunctions [8], exciton-blocking layer (EBL) [9], organic dopants [10], metal nanoparticle dopants, [11] stacked tandem structures [12], and p-i-n architecture [13].
However, the development of small molecule OPV devices appears to be continuously expanding due to the ease with which film thickness can be controlled during device fabrication, as well as the excellent stability of the donor material such as CuPc and Zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc).
We have classified them according to modifications such as anode pretreatment [15,16], multiple junctions of active layers [17–25], as well as the material of the anode [26,27], donor [25,28–30], acceptor [31,32], and EBL [33–37].
used subphthalocyanine (SubPc) as the donor material to obtain a PCE of 2.1% with a high open circuit voltage of 0.97 V [28].
As long as the energy offset of the lowest occupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) between the donor and acceptor is large enough, excitons will be sufficiently dissociated into electron-hole pairs with a difference in binding energy near the donor/acceptor interface due to the preferable properties of charged carriers with regard to energy [38–41].
ηED is the exciton diffusion efficiency, defined as the ratio of the number of diffuse excitons to the donor/acceptor interface to the number of photo-induced excitons.
ηCT is a minor factor and is assumed to be 100% when the energy offset of LUMO (HOMO) between donor and acceptor is larger than 0.2 eV [42].
By this method, the layer donor, acceptor, EBL, and cathode are deposited sequentially on the anode substrate to form the OPVs.
The first efficient small molecule bilayer OPV device comprised an indium tin oxide (ITO) anode, CuPc donor, 3,4,9,10-perylene tetracarboxylic bisbenzimidazole (PTCBI, PV) acceptor and Ag cathode [5], which became a reference structure similar to that shown in Figure 1.
There was a planar heterojunction interface between donor and acceptor to benefit the efficient dissociation of the photo-generated excitons.
Donor and acceptor provide a homogeneous transport pathway to facilitate the hole, electron transport, and collection.
These active materials for photovoltaic applications are usually sorted by their function as turn donor, acceptor, and blocking material.
Metal-phthalocyanine such as CuPc, ZnPc, and SubPc, are the most popular hole transporting materials, which usually serve as the donor and dominant absorption material in OPV devices.
introduced SubPc as the donor material.
replaced CuPc with chloroaluminum phthalocyanine (ClAlPc) as the donor to extend the absorption spectrum to near IR, and the PCE of the device reached 2.1% [29].
C60 is widely used as acceptor material in devices due to its high electron mobility, long exciton diffusion length, and complementary absorption spectrum relative to that of major donor materials [31,83–88].
Because native electron and hole mobility are usually quite different, whether in the acceptor or donor material, this mismatch results in a charge imbalance, which could be alleviated or varied by adjusting the thickness.
Figure 5 shows the performance of the device versus the ratio of the thickness of the donor and acceptor in the CuPc/C60 planar heterojunction OPV device.
From the above discussion on materials, the donor metal-phthalocyanine is the hole transporting material and dominant absorber of the active layer within the OPV device.
It is difficult to balance the energy level alignment between the work function of the anode and the HOMO of the donor, which impedes the hole injection from anode to donor.
Therefore, the hole injection layers are applied for the purpose of lowering the energy barrier while the hole transports between the anode and donor.
The poly[3,4-(ethylenedioxy)- thiophene]:poly(styrene sulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) is the most famous hole injection material, which is commonly utilized to decrease surface roughness [31] and increase work function, thereby obtaining an ohmic contact between the anode and donor, increase the hole collection, enlarge the VOC [93,94], and block leakage of electrons and excitons from the anode [95,96].
Furthermore, PEDOT:PSS provides improved energy level alignment with the donor to reduce the energy loss between anode and donor.
Notably, a number of hole transporting materials could serve as a second donor in the OPV devices.
This double donor and single acceptor cascade structure possesses the advantages of better energy level alignment, multi-charge dissociation interfaces, and broadband absorption of solar spectrum.
constructed an OPV device with a cascade-type energy band structure, by inserting CuPc as the interlayer between the donor and acceptor to enlarge the VOC from 0.31 V to 0.558 V and improve the PCE from 0.78% to 1.54% [19].
The most popular EBL is BCP [37,43] serving as the buffer layer and inserted to separate the acceptor C60 and Ag cathode for the prevention of thermal damage during the deposition of high temperature metal atoms [31,37,38], and the exciton quenching induced by the cathode [9,35].
The wide band gap above the energy level of the acceptor material cannot be absorbed and remains transparent for the absorption range of the active layer.
It also prevents dissociation of the exciton at the interface between the acceptor and EBL.
When the thickness of BCP is increased, the transported electrons are easy to collect and recombine in the acceptor layer near the acceptor/BCP interface due to the poor electron mobility of BCP, thereby decreasing the RSH and JSC.
This suggested the presence of a stronger optical field located at the interface of the donor/acceptor in this condition.
On the other hand, it was implied that the thicknesses of the high electron mobility materials, acceptor C60 and blocking layer BCP could be used to adjust the distribution of the optical field.
In addition, from these results, a stronger intensity of the optical field located at the interface of the donor/acceptor was not the primary factor in improving PCE.
The carrier transport behavior of the donor and acceptor appear to have been more important, and had to be optimized because they were thickness-dependent.
One of the layers or devices is adjusted to optimize the optical intensity at the interface of the donor/acceptor.
The focal length of each lens could be configured to focus near the interface of the donor/acceptor to increase the probability of exciton dissociation.
In addition, the reasonable molecular level interactions between donor and acceptor is necessary to achieve high-efficiency OSCs, as verified by multiscale characterization techniques and photovoltaic device physics [31,32,33].
In order to further study the PI/AgNW based flexible and semitransparent OSCs with the validation of the proposed design, simulations and experiments were carried out for a typical active system of poly(4,8-bis[5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-4,6-diyl) (PTB7-Th) donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) acceptor in this work.
The donor P3HT (4002E, Rieke Metals, Lincoln, NE, USA) and acceptor ICBA (Luminescence Technology Corp., Taiwan, China) were mixed in dichlorobenzene (DCB) (Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA), where P3HT:ICBA was produced with a total concentration of 40 mg/mL in a 1:1 weight ratio.
A minor modification of conventional cw and pulsed EPR spectroscopy is light-induced EPR (LEPR) spectroscopy using cw illumination to create paramagnetic species in a sample, e.g., polarons in a blend of donor and acceptor material as used in organic photovoltaics (Dyakonov et al., 1999).
If the organic semiconductor, here the donor, absorbs a photon of the appropriate energy, it gets excited into an excited singlet state.
In an idealized picture, the excited state migrates toward the interface with the acceptor phase and forms there a coulombically coupled charge-transfer state, often termed charge-transfer complex (CTC), upon transferring a charge onto the acceptor.
The only limitation of LEPR spectroscopy is the need for investigating blends of donor and acceptor materials, even if one is only interested in the charge carriers contained in one of them, as otherwise, due to the low dielectric constant of organic semiconductors, no charge separation will occur and no polarons will be formed.
Another light-induced and potentially paramagnetic species present in OPV devices under operating conditions are CTCs, i.e., coulombically bound charge pairs residing at the interface between donor and acceptor phase.
In any case, they clearly appear in both, pristine polymers and blends of donors and acceptors used in OPV devices (Köhler and Bässler, 2009).
The copolymer poly[N-9′-hepta-decanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT) (Blouin et al., 2007, 2008) is mostly used as donor material in OPVs with high internal quantum efficiency of nearly 100% (Park et al., 2009).
The original idea was to investigate triplet excitons of PCDTBT originating from intersystem crossing from an excited singlet state in order to be able to distinguish their signature from other signals, e.g., in blends with acceptors.
PNDIT2 is known to be a rather strong push-pull system with the HOMO and LUMO nearly exclusively located on donor and acceptor, respectively (Steyrleuthner et al., 2012).
The energy of the low-lying triplet states of the donor is normally too far below the LUMO level of the acceptor for these triplet states to contribute substantially to charge separation.
However, using acceptors with orbitals energetically matching those of these low-lying triplet states could help boosting the quantum efficiency of the devices by using long-wavelength irradiation for productive charge separation.
When an electron donor polymer (PTB7) and an electron acceptor polymer (PC71BM) are brought in contact, a regional field develops at their interface.
 We report exceptionally long-distance coupled exciplex emissions between electron-donor and electron-acceptor molecules even with a 70 nm-thick spacer layer.Intermolecular electron–hole coupling in organic semiconductor excited states plays important roles in organic light-emitting diodes and organic photovoltaics, and the distance of the coupling is typically only on the order of a few nanometers.
Here, we report exceptionally long-distance coupled exciplex emissions between electron-donor and electron-acceptor molecules even with a 70 nm-thick spacer layer.
Donor/spacer (∼70 nm)/acceptor-type stacked films showed a low-energy band emission, which is not ascribed to the emission of the donor, spacer, and acceptor themselves, but well corresponds to the energy difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital of the acceptor.
An exciplex is an intermolecular complex in an excited state, formed from electron-donor and electron-acceptor molecules.
These have been widely studied especially in the context of photosynthesis chemistry, in an effort to understand photo-induced electron transfer and to create long-lived charge-separated states with donor–spacer–acceptor system frameworks, including electron-donating porphyrin derivatives, electron-accepting fullerenes, carbon nanotubes, and π-conjugated molecules.1–3 The energy level of an exciplex state is lower than that of each independent electron-donor and electron-acceptor molecule, and thus its emission wavelength becomes bathochromically-shifted from the original emission of each molecule.
For exciplex formation, the distance between electron-donor and electron-acceptor molecules has to be very small, on the order of a few nanometers at most.11–13 However, Nakanotani et al.
observed exciplex emissions derived from long-distance coupled donor and acceptor molecules with a 10 nm thick spacer layer,14 and then, Chapran et al., Li et al., and Sych et al.
also observed similar exciplex emissions with a several nanometer spacer layer, using different types of donor and acceptor molecules.15–17 Colella et al.
reported that donor and acceptor molecules diluted in a host matrix (i.e.
found that bound electron–hole pairs moved to a distance of approximately 10 nm at the p–n interface.19 These extraordinarily long-distance electron–hole couplings between the donor and acceptor molecules are still not well understood, and developing and understanding such exotic exciplex states (i.e.
Here we report abnormally long-distance exciplex emissions in OLEDs even with an ∼70 nm-thick spacer layer between electron-donor molecules and electron-acceptor molecules.
Electroluminescence (EL) and transient EL of the devices with different spacer layers were measured to compare with PL and transient PL of the donor:acceptor mixed or stacked films.
Various donor molecules in the OLEDs were systematically used, while the types of spacer and acceptor molecules were fixed, to investigate the influence of the energy difference between the donor and acceptor molecules on the low-energy band emission.
The type of spacer molecule was also changed to help understand the role of the interfaces between the donor and the spacer and between the spacer and the acceptor in the emission mechanism.
1,1′-Bis(di-4-tolyl-aminophenyl)cyclohexane (TAPC), 9,10-bis(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)anthracene (DMA), and 9,10-bis(3,5-dicyanophenyl)anthracene (DCA) were used as the donor molecule (D), spacer molecule (S), and acceptor molecule (A), respectively.
PL properties of the donor TAPC, the spacer DMA, and the acceptor DCA; (a) chemical structures of the compounds.
0 nm spacer) showed two EL emissions, in which the high-energy band emission with a λmax of 445 nm was identical to the PL spectrum of the acceptor DCA itself and the low-energy band emission with a λmax of 550 nm was similar to the PL spectrum of the exciplex between the donor TAPC and the acceptor DCA.
The microsecond-scale transient EL component became smaller with increasing the spacer layer thickness, but this delayed component did not totally disappear even with abnormally thick spacers (∼70 nm thickness) between the donor and the acceptor layers.
To exclude any possibility that the acceptor DCA or the donor TAPC is not involved in the low-energy band emission, the device D/S without the acceptor DCA layer and the device S/A without the donor TAPC layer were fabricated, respectively, and their EL spectra are compared (Fig.
The donor might be in close proximity to the acceptor if the spacer layer was not deposited uniformly.
Therefore, we carefully checked the surface morphology of the donor layer, the spacer on the donor layer, and the acceptor layer on the spacer/donor stacked layer (Fig.
They were sufficiently smooth with an average roughness (Ra) of 0.37 nm for the donor layer and 0.33 nm for the spacer layer.
The acceptor layer on the spacer/donor stacked layer showed a relatively rough surface morphology with an Ra of 0.84 nm and the maximum depth of the depressions was 6 nm (Fig.
These results suggest that the donor TAPC and acceptor DCA are separated by the uniformly deposited spacer DMA and their distances are fairly constant in the stacked layers.
It should be noted that injected holes in the devices reach the acceptor layer, because one of the two EL emissions at the short wavelength is clearly ascribed to the emission of DCA.
S4†), and the charge recombination zone is located primarily in the acceptor layer.
Therefore, partially accumulated holes at the interface between the donor layer and the spacer layer (D/S) interact with the electrons at the interface between the spacer layer and the acceptor layer (S/A) through the spacer layer.
These were confirmed by the device without both the spacer DMA and the acceptor DCA, fabricated with a structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS (30 nm)/TAPC (15 nm)/B3PyPB (60 nm)/LiF (1 nm)/Al.
First, the charge recombination zone is mainly located at the acceptor layer as mentioned above.
Considering the exciplex emission between the donor and the acceptor through the spacer layer, the type of donor molecule must influence the emission wavelength of the exciplex due to the change of the energy difference between the donor and acceptor.
Four different donor molecules were used for comparison with TAPC: tris(4-carbazoyl-9-ylphenyl)amine (TCTA), N,N′-di(1-naphthyl)-N,N′-diphenyl-(1,1′-biphenyl)-4,4′-diamine (NPD), N,N′-bis[4-[bis(3-methylphenyl)amino]phenyl]-N,N′-diphenyl-[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine (DNTPD), and 4,4′,4′′-tris[(3-methylphenyl)phenylamino]triphenylamine (MTDATA).
Chemical structures, energy diagrams, PL spectra of the co-evaporated films with the acceptor DCA, and EL spectra of the devices with the same structure as the TAPC donor device are shown in Fig.
The PL spectra of the co-evaporated films were bathochromically shifted with decreased energy gaps between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor DCA.
TCTA and NPD showed emissions corresponding to their exciplex with the acceptor DCA, in addition to the emission from the acceptor DCA itself.
In the devices with DNTPD and MTDATA, the emission corresponding to their exciplex with the acceptor DCA also appeared, but a blue-shifted emission corresponding to their exciplex with the spacer DMA appeared more strongly because of their shallower HOMO energy level compared to that of NPD, TCTA, and TAPC, resulting in a larger hole injection barrier to the spacer layer, efficiently forming the exciplex with the spacer DMA.
These results showing that the lowest-energy band emissions are clearly dependent on the energy difference between the donor and the acceptor species demonstrate that these emissions are related to the exciplex between the donor and the acceptor species.
EL properties of the devices with different types of donor compounds; (a) chemical structures of the compounds.
(c) PL spectra of the co-evaporated (1/1 wt/wt) films of DCA and the different donors: TCTA (λex 370 nm), NPD (λex 380 nm), DNTPD (λex 380 nm), and MTDATA (λex 400 nm).
One with a λmax of 445 nm is ascribed to emissions from the acceptor DCA itself, while the other at λmax = 550 nm is ascribed to the exciplex emission between the donor TAPC and the acceptor DCA.
Excitation light was irradiated on the acceptor DCA side at 380–405 nm.
Therefore, for the formation of the D/A exciplex, Sδ– needs to move to the acceptor DCA layer, which is why the CBP spacer thickness was smaller than that of the DMA spacer in the formation of the long-distance D/S/A exciplexes.
Exciplex emissions were observed with exceptionally long-distance donor–acceptor coupling through spacer molecules in OLEDs, with a maximum spacer distance of 70 nm.
The observed low-energy band EL component was congruent with the exciplex PL in the co-evaporated films of the donor and acceptor molecules, even when the donor and acceptor were separated by a long-distance spacer up to around 70 nm.
Four different types of donor molecules having different HOMO levels also showed different low-energy band EL components with the acceptor DCA, corresponding to the difference of their HOMO levels and LUMO levels of the acceptor DCA.
The effect of the different spacer molecules suggests that the exciplex formation both at the donor/spacer and the spacer/acceptor interface results in long-distance coupling between the donor and the acceptor through such a thick spacer layer.
This finding of the exceptionally long-distance donor–acceptor coupling in OLEDs is far beyond previous perception and helps to eliminate preconceptions of photophysics in organic semiconductors, and would have the possibility to lead to totally different highly sensitive sensors or photodetectors to external stimulus, with various applications other than OLED applications.
The incorporation of an electron delocalized donor antenna or hole transport chromophore in the ancillary ligands of a ruthenium polypyridyl complex sensitizer has proved an efficient route to increase the light-harvesting efficiency in MLCT band and red-shifting the absorption spectrum of ruthenium sensitizer.
The molecular structure of 14 (shown in Figure 3) is characterized by a peripheral ring of ethylendioxythiophene (EDOT) functionalized with an electron donor moiety (triphenylamine like).
The study, performed through electrochemical and spectroscopic analysis, of the effects of replacing a single polypyridyl ligand with an analogous cyclometalating anionic ligand, revealed that a bathochromic shift occurred following the destabilization of the dye HOMO which in turn is related to the strong electron donor ability of the cyclometalating ligand (Bomben et al., 2009).
proposed a series of cyclometallated thiocyanate-free Ru photosensitizers based on phenylpyridine ligands and studied the effect of various substituents on the phenyl ring (Huang et al., 2015): the efficiency was found to depend on the electron acceptor ability of the substituent group and approached 9% for dye 20.
The breaking of porphyrin symmetry, with the phenyl moiety acting as donor and the carboxylic acid as acceptor, determined a red shift of Q-band; the dyes 22 and 23 (shown in Figure 4), used as DSSC sensitizers, provided an efficiency of 4.1 and 4.8%, respectively.
The most performing dyes reported in that paper, dye 28 and 29, were characterized by the presence of a dimethylanilino-donor group: the concept of push-pull porphyrins, where the macrocycle acts as π-spacer between a strong electron donor group and an electron acceptor group, was found very fruitful in order to extend optical absorption and harvest a larger fraction of solar photons.
In 2009, a series of Zn porphyrins with a diarylamino group as strong electron donor substituent and ethynyl-carboxy moiety as acceptor, were prepared and studied as DSSC photosensitizers (Lu et al., 2009): compared to similar diarylamino-free systems, a broadening of the Soret band and a remarkable red shift of the Q band characterized the optical absorption of the new molecules, 30 and 31, whose molecular structure is reported in Figure 5.
A slight structural modification of 37, consisting in the functionalization with alkoxy tails of the phenyl groups of the diarylamino donor group, led to 38, which afforded an efficiency of 13% (Mathew et al., 2014).
The prototypal metal-free sensitizer is based on a push-pull structure D-π-A where an electron donor (D) group is linked to an electron acceptor (A) through a π-conjugated bridge (π).
Typically, the electron acceptor also acts as the anchoring group that binds the dye to the semiconductor surface.
This type of structure is favorable because it facilitates the separation of photoinduced charge: upon photoexcitation, a shift of electron density occurs from the donor part of the molecule (where the HOMO is mainly localized) toward the electron acceptor side (where the LUMO is mainly localized), thus facilitating the electron injection into the conduction band of TiO2 and, at the same time, hindering the deleterious process of charge recombination between semiconductor and oxidized molecule.
The rational design of novel metal-free sensitizers has been focused on investigating different electron donors and π-linkers and, to a lesser extent, electron-withdrawing anchoring moieties.
Among the donor units, triphenylamine (TPA) and derivatives are by far the most studied (Ahmad et al., 2013).
The triphenylamine donor was introduced for the first time in 2004 (Kitamura et al., 2004): dye 44 (see Figure 7) was employed as photosensitizer in a classical DSSC device based on iodine electrolyte and afforded a promising efficiency of 5.30%.
In this regard, TPA functionalized with dihexyloxy (DHO) represents one of the most efficient donors in metal-free sensitizers for high performance DSSCs.
Hexyloxy tails also have the effect to increase the electron donor ability of TPA group.
The dye 43, reported in 2011 (Tsao et al., 2011b) is characterized by DHO-TPA donor group; the insertion in its molecular skeleton of a cyclopentadithiophene electron-rich moiety determined a red shifted absorption (absorption maximum at 538 nm with ε of 53,000 M−1 cm−1).
A fluorene-based variation of TPA donor moiety was used by the Gratzel group in 2009 (Xu et al., 2009): the dye 54 (Figure 7) showed an efficiency of 8.32%.
The same donor was used by Choi et al.
In the same paper the dye 55 was used as sensitizer in a device based on a solvent-free ionic liquid which provided a relevant efficiency of 7.9% and a very high operational stability under light soaking at 60°C for 1,000 h. Derivatives of indoline were also explored as electron donors with excellent results: dye 56, shown in Figure 8, containing an indoline donor group and a cyclopentadithiophene spacer, provided devices with efficiency up to 9.03%.
Functionalization of TPA donor with an electron-rich carbazole unit offered an interesting approach based on D-D-π-A structure: this kind of structure has been shown to provide a better photochemical and thermal stability than the simple push-pull structure.
The dye 58 is a further example employing a thiophene-substituted tryarilamine as donor: the device sensitized with this dye produced an efficiency of 6.37% (Zhang et al., 2013).
The structure of dye 59 (see Figure 8) is characterized by the insertion of an electron-poor benzothiadiazole group between an indoline donor and a bithiophene bearing the final acceptor (anchoring) cyanoacrylic moiety (Wu et al., 2012).
By keeping an indoline donor and an auxiliary benzothiadiazole acceptor group, dye 60 was characterized by the use in the π-bridge of 4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-silolo[3,2-b:4,5-b0]dithiophene (see Figure 8), which was found to work very effectively in reducing dye aggregation (Gao et al., 2016).
Dye 61 also contains a benzothiadiazole group in the molecular framework with a fluorene derivative of TPA as donor: an efficiency of 8.19% was found together with a relevant stability of the device which retained 90% of its performance after 1,000 h light soaking (Kim et al., 2008).
Dye 62, containing a pyridal[2,1,3]benzotriazole, was investigated as DSSC photosensitizer affording an efficiency of 7.92% (Chaurasia et al., 2015b); the use of a weaker electron acceptor compared to benzothiadiazole was thought to exert a weaker charge trap effect, thus favoring the migration of the electron toward the anchoring cyanoacrylic group.
The dye 63, whose structure is reported in Figure 9, belongs to the class of D-A-π-A sensitizers as well: it is characterized by the presence of a diketopyrrolopyrrole electron withdrawing group in the molecular backbone and an indoline type donor group (Qu et al., 2012).
The dye 64 is characterized by the quinoxaline acceptor group and showed a maximum absorption maximum at 555 nm (ε = 63200).
The use of a rigid aromatic system in the molecular backbone has been extensively studied in order to increase the overall planarity and favor a strong electrical communication between the donor and the acceptor parts of the molecule (Chaurasia et al., 2015a).
The dye 65 has a quite simple structure based on a donor phenothiazine group linked to a classic cyanoacrylic anchor group.
Following this approach, our group proposed a series of double anchored dyes, based on a pyran core functionalized with several electron acceptor moieties and symmetrically coupled to carbazole or phenothiazine donor moieties (Maglione et al., 2016a,b).
The functionalization of a same molecular fragment with different electron acceptor groups allows a wide tuning of the optical properties so that the dyes cover most of the visible spectrum.
As described in this paragraph, the anchoring group of the typical metal-free photosensitizer is a cyanoacrylic moiety which coincides with the electron acceptor part of the dye.
The introduction of donor and acceptor moieties to the periphery of the macrocycle core was one of the most important results in the design of high performance porphyrin dyes (Chang et al., 2011): in this way a push-pull structure is realized that promotes, on photoexcitation, a directional electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor which is bonded to the semiconductor oxide surface; moreover, the molecular HOMO is in this way far from the anchorage point of the dye on TiO2, thus reducing the undesired recombination process between oxidized dye and semiconductor.
The porphyrin-based dyes in combination with cobalt-based redox mediators have afforded remarkable efficiencies: in particular, by using auxiliary electron acceptor to broaden the optical absorption and cover the region between the Soret and the Q bands, outstanding efficiencies of up to 13% were achieved (Mathew et al., 2014).
The development of metal-free dyes has undoubtedly benefited from the previous optimization of the design rules for the other class of DSSC sensitizers: the classical molecular structure of this class of dyes is based on a push-pull structure in which an electron donor is bonded through a π-bridge to an electron acceptor (and the whole structure typically covalently decorated by hydrophobic tails).
A systematic investigation of these three components has been carried out: TPA and its derivatives are by far the most studied electron donors (Mahmood, 2016) and with indoline type donors provide the most efficient dyes.
Several conjugated bridges have been studied, containing auxiliary acceptor groups or rigidified aromatic units to increase planarity (Chaurasia et al., 2015a).
The most commonly used electron acceptor group is the cyanoacrylic group which coincides with the anchoring point of the dye on TiO2.
In an effort to control the charge transport within the bulk‐heterojunction (BHJ) of OPVs, the n‐type dopant benzyl viologen (BV) is incorporated in a BHJ composed of the donor polymer PM6 and the small‐molecule acceptor IT‐4F.
Figure 1a shows the chemical structures of the polymer donor PM6, the acceptor IT‐4F, and the BV dopant.
The BV concentration was calculated as a weight percentage of the solid weight mass of the donor and acceptor materials (see the Experimental Section).
To determine whether BV acts as n‐type dopant for the materials considered in this work, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy of each acceptor was measured by photoelectron spectroscopy in air (PESA), and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) position were determined by adding the experimentally determined HOMO and optical bandgap energies of each molecule.
The HOMO level of BV was calculated to be −3.43 eV using density functional theory (DFT),35 which is quite close to the literature value (−3.3 eV).30 Critically, the HOMO of the neutral BV is significantly higher than the LUMO of the various acceptor molecules considered (i.e., IT‐4F, Y6, IT‐2Cl, EH‐IDTBR, and PC71BM).
These favorable energetics supports the possibility of electron transfer from the BV's HOMO to the LUMO of the acceptors, leading to n‐type doping.30
The WF increases by 100 meV, from −4.5 to −4.4 eV, indicating increased charge carrier density and thus successful n‐type doping of the acceptor molecule IT‐4F.
Molecular engineering plays a critical role in the development of electron donor and acceptor materials for improving power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic photovoltaics (OPVs).
The halogenated acceptor materials in OPVs have shown high PCE.
Here, to investigate the halogenation mechanism and the effects on OPV performances, based on the density functional theory calculations with the optimally tuned screened range-separated hybrid functional and the consideration of solid polarization effects, we addressed the halogenation effects of acceptor ITIC, which were modeled by bis-substituted ITIC with halogen and coded as IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br), and PBDB-T:ITIC, PBDB-T:IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) complexes on their geometries, electronic structures, excitations, electrostatic potentials, and the rate constants of charge transfer, exciton dissociation (ED), and charge recombination processes at the heterojunction interface.
However, the halogenation of ITIC significantly enlarges the electrostatic potential difference between the electron acceptor and donor PBDB-T with the order from fluorination and chlorination to bromination.
No matter which kinds of haloid elements were introduced in the halogenation of acceptors, the ED is always efficient in these OPV devices.
Most of the electron processes for OPV power conversion happen in the active layer which is composed of both electron donor and acceptor materials.
In the past few years, the design and development of new electron donor and acceptor materials for OPV active layer have promoted the rapid improvement of PCE.
Fullerene and its derivatives were usually used as electron acceptor materials due to their high electron affinity and electron mobility.
Non-fullerenes acceptors (NFAs) have many advantages over fullerenes, such as tunable energy levels and high molar absorption coefficients, resulting in a situation where NFAs have gradually replaced fullerenes as electron acceptors in OPV.
Backbone modification, side-chain engineering, and end-group substitution are common strategies for designing new electron donor and acceptor materials of OPV.
Developing donor or acceptor materials by halogenation improved OPV performance [14,15].
found that the chlorinated backbone of a isoindigo-based polymer donor and acceptor (PC71BM) showed an appropriate degree of phase separation, reduced film crystallinity, and improved OPV performance (which was ascribed to the donor molecular stacking orientation [16]).
Among them, Br and I substitutions can drastically reduce the surface free energies of donor/acceptor interfaces, forming fine bulk heterojunction (BHJ) for OPV.
investigated the fluorinated electron donor PBDB-TF, fluorinated NFA BTP-4F, and chlorinated BTP-4Cl, and found that the halogenation can increase open-circuit voltage (VOC) and PCE (15.6% and 16.5%, respectively) by reducing energy losses [19].
designed the NFA BDTBO-4F and BDTBO-4Cl through halogenation strategy and adopted PM6 as electron donor for fabricating OPV.
Hole transfer at donor/acceptor interfaces was still efficient though the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) offsets between the donor and acceptor are smaller than 0.1 eV, and the PM6:BDTBO-4F device exhibited a low charge recombination (CR) rate, high charge mobility, and suitable phase separation [20].
compared the electronic properties of polymers PBT4T-2OD and PffBT4T-2OD for understanding the correlation between solution temperature-dependent aggregation and solid-state stacking, and found that fluorination can enhance the planarity of the donor polymer backbone and increase the interaction among polymers, promoting molecule packing order for higher PCE [30].
reported that halogenation generates a larger difference of molecular surface average electrostatic potential (ESP) between the electron donor and acceptor [32].
Therefore, it induces a stronger intermolecular electric field at donor/acceptor interface which can increase ED efficiency and then enlarge the short-circuit current density (Jsc) [33].
Our previous work indicated that electron donor halogenation can remarkably influence energy level alignment at heterojunction interfaces, and the improved PCE induced by donor halogenation can be mainly ascribed to the increased charge transfer (CT) excitation energies and suppression of CR processes [35].
Among the OPV devices based on bis-substituted halogenation (F, Cl, Br) of ITIC as NFAs and PBDB-T as electron donor, the fluorinated system generated the largest Jsc, while the brominated system exhibited the highest FF (about 0.71) with a small amount of agglomeration area in the blended film, leading to the reduction of EQE and Jsc [40].
Here, to investigate acceptor halogenation effects, we selected PBDB-T:ITIC and PBDB-T:IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) as the model systems whose molecular structures are shown in Figure 1, and analyzed the molecular geometries, electronic structures, optical properties, excitation properties, ESP and the kinetics of electron processes at the heterojunction interfaces.
Two repeat units were considered as the molecular structure of polymer donor PBDB-T in calculations, since the calculated frontier molecular orbitals (MOs) of polymer donor D18 whose molecular structure is similar to that of PBDB-T indicated that the frontier MOs are mainly localized on two repeat units [47].
To reduce the computational cost, the alkyl chains (-C2H5, -C4H9 in the polymer donor and -C6H13 in the acceptors) in the complexes were substituted with -CH3, since the side chain only affects the active layer morphology and does not affect other properties [49]; this simplification has been widely used in other works [31,50,51].
The excitation properties of donor and acceptor molecules, as well as the PBDB-T:ITIC and PBDB-T:IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) complexes, were calculated using time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) methods.
The following methods were adopted for optimally tuning ω [35,54,55]:(1)E1ω=|EDHOMOω+ED+ω−EDω| + |EAHOMOω+EA+ω−EAω|E2ω=|EDHOMOω+ED+ω−EDω| + |EA−HOMOω+EAω−EA−ω|Eω=E1ω+E2ω where EDHOMOω, EAHOMOω, EA−HOMOω are the HOMO level to the neutral donor, acceptor at neutral state and acceptor at anion state, respectively.
The ED+ω, EA+ω, EA−ω are the single-point energy of the donor at cation state, acceptor at cation state, and acceptor at anion state, respectively.
The EDω and EAω are the neutral state energy of the donor and acceptor, respectively.
In order to investigate the effect of acceptor halogenation on the electronic processes, the rate of CT, CR, and ED were calculated using Marcus’ theory.
The λi were estimated from the energies of donor and acceptor molecules [55,56].
The unit of PBDB-T with D-π-A type structure contains electron donor moiety based on benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) core, thienyl as π-spacer, and acceptor fragment based upon 5,7-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD) moiety, labeled as D1, T1, and A1 in Figure 1, respectively.
For the A-D-A structure ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br), the acceptor fragments are 3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone)) (DCI), and the 5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′]-dithiophene (DID) fragment plays the role of donor.
The LUMO energy offset between donor and acceptor is usually considered as driving force for ED, while the energy offset between the LUMO of acceptor and the HOMO of donor is regarded as the driving force for CR.
It was observed that the electron donor PBDB-T film exhibited good complementary absorption with those of acceptor ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) [40].
The complementary absorption of donor and acceptor in organic heterojunction are favorable to improve Jsc by enhancing photon harvest [68].
Hence, in terms of transition configurations and MOs, the main character of PBDB-T’s S1 state is hybridized of CT and LE that is localized in donor fragment BDT (DLE).
Moreover, the CDD of ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) suggest that the DCI and DID fragments are electron acceptor and donors, respectively, and the phenyl moieties in side chains also play the role of electron donor.
Since the increased average ESP value of electron acceptor can increase the electron accepting ability [69], the halogenation of ITIC promotes their electron accepting ability, which is favorable for enhancing CT between donor-acceptor complexes [32].
Furthermore, halogenation of ITIC also generate the enlarged ESP differences between donor and acceptors, and further induce stronger interface electric field that can promote the ED and CT at the donor-acceptor interface [33].
Moreover, the enlarged ESP difference between donor and acceptors may also suppressing non-radiation recombination (which was regarded as one of the important energetic losses route in OPV) [70].
Compared with those of the corresponding geometric parameters of the ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) molecules, the changes in bond lengths and angles are smaller than 0.001 Å and 1° for the corresponding electron acceptors in complexes, respectively.
The distance between the mass centers of donor and acceptor in PBDB-T:ITIC and PBDB-T:IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br) complexes are 4.32, 3.03, 5.86, and 3.19 Å, respectively.
The maximum dihedral angle variations in complexes locate at the torsion between the donor DID and acceptor DCI fragments in ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br), and the corresponding values are 11°, 19°, 9°, 13°, respectively.
The calculated results show that halogenation increases Eb (see Table 5), indicating that halogenation enhances the non-bonding intermolecular interaction between electron donor and acceptor, which is beneficial to improve the morphology regioregularity that was approved by relatively smooth surfaces of PBDB-T:IT-2X (X = F, Br) blended films [40].
The data of quadrupole moments of ITIC and halogenated systems (see Table S5 in SM) indicate halogenation results into an increase of the quadrupole, and then contribute to enhance quadrupole interaction between the donor and acceptor molecules in complexes [71].
The S1 states of all the complexes in this work are CT excitations, and the energies of local excitation in acceptor (ALE) and in donor (DLE) are higher than that of CT states, indicating energetic permission for ED.
Meanwhile, the halogenation effects on CT excitation energies of these complexes are similar to that on H-Lgap, which can be understood from transition configurations and weak intermolecular interaction between PBDB-T and acceptor in complexes.
The Δd for most of excited CT states are in range of typical intermolecular distances between donor and acceptor in organic photovoltaic heterojunctions.
In this work, based on the quantum chemical calculations and the selected model systems which include donor PBDB-T, acceptors ITIC and IT-2X (X = F, Cl, Br), the halogenation mechanism and its effects on photovoltaic performances were studied.
Halogenation of electron acceptor ITIC in OPV heterojunction slightly affect the molecular geometric structures, MO energy levels, optical absorption spectra, exciton binding energies, and excitation properties.
However, the halogenation of ITIC significantly enlarge the ESP difference between electron acceptor and donor PBDB-T with the order from fluorination and chlorination to bromination that can induce an electric field at the heterojunction interface, and the halogenation can also increase the transferred charges of CT states for the complexes, corresponding to the increase of Jsc.
No matter which kinds of elements were introduced in the halogenation of the acceptor, the ED is always efficient in these OPV devices since the ED rates are more than 13-fold larger than CR rates.
This work provides help in understanding the mechanism of halogenation influences on OPV performances of acceptor material properties, and is also conducive to the design of new high-performance acceptor materials with the aid of halogenation strategy.
Accordingly, based on efficient dissociation of photogenerated excitons, the interpercolation of these two nano-building blocks allows a photovoltaic conversion efficiency of 1.7% in the hybrid solar cell, up to 42% enhancement compared to the reference solar cell with traditional P3HT molecules as electron donor.
Meanwhile, to obtain an optimized phase separation in the organic/inorganic hybrids, the inorganic electron acceptor was usually prepared with good monodispersion, at the cost of high charge mobility in the bulk materials.
Here in this work, we have fabricated this novel organic/inorganic HBSC composed of the above two efficient nano-building blocks: P3HT NWs and CdSe NTs as donor and acceptor, respectively.
J-V charactgeristics (d) and EQE properties (e) of the solar cells with traditional P3HT molecule and P3HT NWs as the electrons donor.
J-V charactgeristics (d) and EQE properties (e) of the solar cells with traditional P3HT molecule and P3HT NWs as the electrons donor.
Figure 3d shows the I-V characteristic of the hybrid solar cell with P3HT NWs as electron donor.
For comparison, the solar cell adopting traditional P3HT molecules as donor was also fabricated and optimized as reference (named P3HT:CdSe NTs); its photovoltaic performance was also given in Fig. 3d.
Under AM 1.5 illumination, the reference solar cell with traditional P3HT molecules donor generates a short current density (Jsc) of 4.5 mA/cm2, open circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.58 V, fill factor (FF) of 45.9% and conversion efficiency (Eff) of 1.2%.
In comparison, hybrid solar cell incorporating P3HT NWs donor generates much better photovoltaic performance than the P3HT:CdSe NTs device, with Jsc, Voc, FF, and Eff values of 6.0 mA/cm2, 0.57 V, 49.7 and 1.7%, respectively.
The performance of hybrid solar cells adopting P3HT NWs and CdSe NTs was found to be greatly dependent on the mass ratio of electrons donor and acceptor.
Besides the light absorption, the improved charge transport is also speculated to be one of the reasons for performance enhancement of the solar cells adopting P3HT NWs as donor, which could be achieved at proper NWs/NTs mass ratio that enables interpenetrated donor/acceptor networks.
It is noted that the optimized P3HT:CdSe mass ratio in our work (1:2) using P3HT NWs as electron donor is much larger than that in the reference solar cell (1:6) and the reported solar cell both with P3HT molecules as the donor [21].Fig.
In conclusion, we have fabricated organic/inorganic hybrid bulk-heterojunction solar cells integrating two efficient nano-building blocks: P3HT NWs as the electron donor and CdSe NTs as the acceptor.
Cdot acts as both electron donor and acceptor.
According to the Mott–Schottky equation [42]:C−2=2A2qε0εNA(Vbi−V)  where A is the device area, ε is the relative dielectric constant (10.6), ε0 is the permittivity of vacuum, Vbi the built-in potential, and NA is the net acceptor concentration.
Two novel D-A-π-A1 metal-free organic dyes of the KEA series containing benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole (isoBT) internal acceptor, indoline donors fused with cyclopentane or cyclohexane rings (D), a thiophene as a π-spacer, and a cyanoacrylate as an anchor part were synthesized.
Monoarylation of 4,7-dibromobenzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole by Suzuki-Miyamura cross-coupling reaction showed that in the case of indoline and carbazole donors, the reaction was non-selective, i.e., two monosubstituted derivatives were isolated in each case, whereas only one mono-isomer was formed with phenyl- and 2-thienylboronic acids.
This was explained by the fact that heterocyclic indoline and carbazole fragments are much stronger donor groups compared to thiophene and benzene, as confirmed by cyclic voltammetry measurements and calculation of HOMO energies of indoline, carbazole, thiophene and benzene molecules.
Most of these molecules have the traditional D-π-A structure, consisting of an electron donor (D), a π-bridge and an electron acceptor (A) [16,17,18].
One of the most common auxiliary acceptors used in D-A-π-A1 structures was benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BT) [22,23,24,25].
Herein, we describe a study of cross-coupling reactions of 4,7-dibromobenzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole with donor molecules in order to obtain monosubstituted derivatives for the preparation of donor-acceptor-π-spacer-acceptor1 (D-A-π-A1)-conjugated molecules which could find potential applications in DSSCs.
In these molecules, benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole played the role of internal acceptor, a thiophene cycle as a π-bridge and a cyanoacrylate residue as a terminal acceptor and anchor.
It was found that in the case of indoline donors 2b-d, the reaction remained non-selective; two monosubstituted derivatives, 7b-d and 8b-d, were isolated in all these cases with yields of about 20% (Table 2).
In order to evaluate the donor ability of the substituent of the studied boronic acids to donate electrons, the oxidation potentials of donor 10 are shown in Table 3, as determined by cyclic voltammetry (CV) (see Supplementary Materials).
Oxidation peaks of donors 10a,c,d were observed by CV in DMF solutions (0.1 M Bu4NClO4), whereas for 10e and 10f, having a higher oxidation potential, peaks were obtained in acetonitrile solution.
The cyclic voltammetry showed that heterocyclic fragments 10a, 10c and 10d had much higher EHOMO values, which indicated that they were much stronger donor groups compared to benzene 10e and thiophene 10f.
For product 8b, a proton doublet at C6 is observed at 7.53 ppm with an interaction in HMBC spectra with the quaternary carbon 8 of the donor fragment (highlighted in red), while for the second proton of the isothiadiazole ring at C5 at 7.83 ppm, this interaction is absent.
An additional confirmation of this proved the interaction in HMBC spectra of protons at C9 and C11 of the donor fragment with the quaternary carbon 7 of isothiadiazole (highlighted in green).
Similarly, for isomer 7b, key interactions in HMBC spectra of the proton at C5, which manifests itself at 7.55 ppm, with the quaternary carbon 8 of the donor (red highlight), as well as protons at C9 and C11 of the donor fragment with carbon 4 of isothiadiazole (green highlight), are observed.
The absence of cross peaks in the HMBC spectrum of compound 7b related to the interaction of the proton at C6 and the nodal carbon 8 of the donor, as well as the absence of NOE interaction between protons at C6 and C9/C11 as well as the presence of one between the protons C5 and C9/C11 (blue arrows) additionally confirm the correlation of signals.
As such, we were able to establish that the introduction of a donor substituent led to an upfield shift of the signals from both the nearest proton and the corresponding carbon of the benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole system compared to the parent 4,7-dibromobenzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole 1.
Additional confirmation could serve as a change of chemical shifts of protons at the nodal carbon atoms 12/12′ of the donor fragment: for 7d, two multiplets were observed in the regions of 3.92–4.01 and 4.86–4.93 ppm, and for 8d for the main product, in the regions of 4.65–4.74 ppm and 5.37–5.45 ppm.
The short-wavelength absorption band at 400 nm, which for KEA337 was identified as a shoulder, and for KEA321 was characterized by a high extinction coefficient, corresponded to π/π* electron transition, and long-wavelength absorption maxima in the range of 450–500 nm indicated the presence of an intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) process between donor and acceptor fragments (Figure 4).
Higher extinction coefficients of dyes based on benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole may indicate that the symmetry breaking of the acceptor benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole fragment reduces the efficiency of intramolecular charge transfer for compounds of the KEA series.
At the same time, for a pair of compounds based on the hexahydro-1H-carbazole donor block, the trend in JSC changes is somewhat more predictable: the dye with benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole acceptor MAX114, which has a four times higher value of ε, showed JSC of 0.5 mA cm−2, which is higher than its KEA337 isomer.
The VOC values for DSSCs based on the new KEA series are higher than those for isomeric analogs with a symmetric acceptor (WS-2 and MAX114), probably, due to reduced recombination through the blocking effect of the dye.
Cyclic voltammetry measurements showed that fused indoline and carbazole had much higher EHOMO values than benzene and thiophene, which indicated that they were much stronger donors, which should facilitate electron transfer in the intermediate complex, contributing to the formation of a mixture of monoisomers, in contrast to thienyl- and phenylboronic acids.
The asymmetric nature of benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole KEA dyes in comparison with the symmetrical benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole isomers led to a hypsochromic shift in the ICT band and lower extinction coefficients which suggested that that the symmetry breaking of the acceptor benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole fragment reduced the efficiency of intramolecular charge transfer for compounds of the KEA series.
Both FA and G ions are excellent donors of hydrogen bonds with the lead-halide framework.
Most OPV consist of a single bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) active layer, in which the electron donor (conjugated polymer) and electron acceptor (fullerene) are deposited from a common solvent.
To achieve efficient exciton dissociation and charge transport, an interpenetrating network of electron-donor (D) and -acceptor (A) domains on a length scale of the exciton diffusion length within the active layer is required and introduced during the deposition/drying process or post-production treatment.
The basic idea is that, in each discrete unit cube, if donor shows the biggest density, we classify the whole unit cube as a donor cube.
Conversely, if acceptor/solvent shows the biggest density, we classify the whole unit cube as an acceptor/solvent cube.
Fraction of donor materials fabs ---- Only the donor materials can absorb the light and generate the excited hole-electron pairs (excitons) in the active layer.
If there is only donor and acceptor in the morphology, we could use 0 or 1 to represent donor or acceptor, respectively.
However, our study involves solvent/additive in addition to donor and acceptor.
It is necessary for us to modify descriptor fabs to indicate the fraction of average donor/acceptor density.
Fraction of donor materials whose distance to D/A interface is within a given range (particularly within the exciton diffusion length) fdiss ---- Because the excited hole-electron pairs has a limited lifetime or can diffuse a limited length (10 nm∼), they will recombine or become into the ground state if they cannot reach the D/A interface.
So the fraction of donor material in a given range has an impact on the performance indicator of excitons dissociation.
(See Supplementary Information S5) The size of the interface area between donor domain and acceptor domain is critical for the performance indicator.
When the interface area is small and the domain size is big, the donor domain and the acceptor domain will be continuous and form bi-continuous pathway for charge transport.
EMIM+ is distributed throughout the perovskite film and acts as an electron donor, making it more electron rich, whereas HSO4− is located at the perovskite/TiO2 interface and acts as an electron acceptor.
employed materials with strong electron acceptors, i.e., N,N′-bis(dimethylaminopropyl-N′′′-oxide)-perylene-3,4,9,10-tetracarboxidiimide, which is a perylene diimide derivative with a terminal substituent amino N-oxide, in the perovskite active layer [52].
Other studies explored new materials to enhance hole extraction in Id-PPVs, which are novel donor–acceptor–donor molecule (D-A-D) 2,3-bis(4′-(bis(4-methoxyphenyl)amino)-[1,1′-biphenyl]-4-yl)fumaronitrile (TPA-BPFN-TPA) [81], dopant-free polymer PDTDT [59], an innovative graft-type polymer consisting of a dibenzothiophene-based conjugated backbone [51], a “V” shaped of A-D-A small organic HTL [82], and a unique new dopant of nicotinamide into PEDOT:PSS [83].
The synthesis and preliminary evaluation as donor material for organic photovoltaics of the poly(diketopyrrolopyrrole-spirobifluorene) (PDPPSBF) is reported herein.
The polymers exhibited strong optical absorption out to 700 nm as thin-films and had appropriate electronic energy levels for use as a donor with PC70BM.
As a result, power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) have been significantly improved now reaching 13% due to the recent advent of non-fullerene acceptors [1,2,3].
Prepared in a maximum of three steps from affordable and commercially available materials, this macromolecular donor was built around a design principle where a bulky electron-rich monomer is copolymerized with a more sterically accessible electron-accepting moiety to maximize the interaction with the fullerene derivatives [24].
To evaluate their potential as donor materials and the impact of the polymerization method on the photovoltaic properties, simple air processed bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells were, thereafter, fabricated.
Best devices were achieved from blends spun-cast at 1000 rpm from chloroform solutions in a 1:3 weight-to-weight donor:acceptor ratio at a concentration of 10 mg/mL.
11 mA·cm−2 were recorded in the three cases, a different spectral response was monitored for P2 resulting from an improved contribution in the acceptor region (400–500 nm) that compensates the lower photo conversion assigned to the polymer (550–700 nm).
In summary and to move in directions that will improve on the eco-friendly and cost-efficient creed of the OPV community, we explored herein the synthesis, via direct (hetero)arylation polymerization, and preliminary evaluation of the simple and accessible PDPPSBF polymer as donor material in organic solar cells.
Organic photovoltaic devices fabricated from small molecular donors continue to receive significant interest due to their desirable properties such as convenient synthesis, purification and batch-to-batch reproducibility.
In this study, we have synthesized two small molecules based on an alternating A–D–A structure, utilizing a central EDOT donor moiety and either 2-ethylhexyl cyanoacetate (SAM-72) or N-(2-ethylhexyl)cyanoacetamide (SAM-80) units as acceptor termini.
Post-processing methods such as thermal and solvent vapor annealing were found to significantly increase the stability of devices, but were not able to improve overall device performance.The chemical nature of the acceptor side chain plays an important role in the processability and photovoltaic performance of EDOT-based small molecule donors.
The application of organic materials as the active component of solar cells has received significant attention in view of their increasing power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) and has provided organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices as promising alternatives to silicon based solar cells.1,2 Conducting polymers have been widely utilized in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices as the donor (D) material, and have given rise to solar cells with PCEs exceeding 11%.3 However, the poor batch to batch reproducibility and limited opportunity to develop structure–property relationships of polymeric systems has led to the utilization of small molecules as the active components of BHJs as they offer a range of advantages including well-defined chemical structures, reproducible and scalable synthesis and convenient purification.4,5 Moreover, small molecule-based OPVs have reached PCEs comparable with those of polymeric OPVs (∼10%).6 Small molecule donors based on oligothiophenes,7,8 diketopyrrolopyrroles,9,10 triphenylamine,11,12 and boron-dipyrromethenes,13–15 have received considerable attention, and have been incorporated in alternating donor (D) and acceptor (A) architectures connected by π-conjugated units, e.g.
3,4-Ethylenedioxythiophene (EDOT) is a well-studied building block for the development of π-conjugated materials and has been incorporated into small molecule and polymeric systems with OPV applications.2,38 The two electron donating oxygen moieties at β positions of the thiophene ring increase the electron donating ability compared to the parent heterocycle whilst simultaneously giving rise to non-covalent interactions (sulfur–oxygen) thereby increasing the rigidification of the π-conjugated system.39 Although EDOT has been widely used as a π-linker in D–A type dyes in dye sensitized solar cells (DSSC),40–45 to the best of our knowledge, EDOT-based small molecules for BHJ devices have largely utilized a D–A type architecture,2,44,46 and relatively little has been focused on A–D–A architectures.47,48 In this article, we report the synthesis of symmetrical A–D–A based systems featuring electron rich EDOT cores and their application as solution processed BHJ solar cells with the acceptor [6,6]-phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM).
The molecules were designed to feature EDOT as the central donor moiety with adjacent thiophene π-conjugated units to increase the electron donating ability of the donor component.
We have utilized 2-ethylhexylcyanoacetate (SAM-72) and N-(2-ethylhexyl)cyanoacetamide (SAM-80) as the terminal acceptor groups, which have been previously shown to be promising terminal acceptor moieties.8,49–52 The chemical structure of the molecules are shown in Scheme 1.
Knoevenagel condensation of compound 1 with the two acceptors 2 and 3 gave compounds 4 and 5 which were coupled to the reagent 6 to give the final molecules SAM-72 and SAM-80 in 51% and 54% yield, respectively.
This suggests that the change in terminal acceptors from cyanoacetamide to cyanoacetate increases the HOMO/IP level which can change the open circuit voltage (Voc) in OPV devices, as Voc is proportional to the difference between the HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO level of the acceptor (i.e., PC71BM).58,59
After the synthesis of these donor materials, the next step was to test their photovoltaic performance in solar cells by analyzing their current–voltage (J–V) curves and external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra.
Investigation of the photovoltaic properties started with the optimization of donor to acceptor ratio in the BHJ blend solution.
Due to the device performance of this blend favoring high amounts of acceptor (1 : 5 wt%) when using chloroform as the casting solvent, donor to acceptor weight ratios ranging from 1 : 4 to 1 : 7 were blended and used for BHJ formation using chlorobenzene.
When increasing the acceptor amount in the blend from 1 : 4 to 1 : 6 an increase in device FF and overall PCE was observed.
It has also been shown that using an additive can drastically alter donor or acceptor domain size by causing the materials to swell and reorganize.66–68 This adjustment to the domains in the photoactive layer can boost device performance by enhancing the exciton diffusion length or creating domains of optimum size to combat geminate charge recombination.69,70 In an attempt to increase the OPV efficiency, a combination of the listed processing methods were applied to the active layer.
Box plots for each optimization step for SAM-72:PC71BM devices:(a) donor to acceptor ratio, (b) thermal annealing temperature, and (c) thermal annealing + SVA time.
This low amount of current produced in these devices likely comes from the film consisting mostly of fullerene – an acceptor which does not help device current due to its weak absorption peak in the lower-wavelength region of the visible spectrum.
74) and 2015,48 only two out of the six donor molecules studied resulted in solar cells with FF > 60%.
S8,† initial as-cast films show well-mixed donor and acceptor domains with a surface roughness of 3.34 nm.
AFM phase contrast images of SAM-72:PC71BM films under different processing conditions: (a) as cast film with optimized donor to acceptor ratio; (b) thermal annealed film; (c) film that was both thermally and solvent vapor annealed.
As discussed above, processing methods such as thermal or solvent vapor annealing will cause the molecules in organic films to order themselves in a lower-energy state, changing the donor and acceptor domain structures.66–68 This is observed here (Fig.
Under illumination, the materials within the BHJ will begin to migrate and form pure domains of donor or acceptor.76 If this results in large domains then excitons generated within the domains will recombine before reaching an interface, leading to a decreased PCE.
Here we report the synthesis of small molecule donors SAM-72 and SAM-80 featuring centrally located EDOT units and their incorporation into BHJ solar cells.
Optimization of the donor to acceptor weight ratio provided PCEs of 1.85% and FFs of >60%.
From an industrial point of view, the ultimate legitimation and large scale commercialization OPV-BHJ devices will need PCE over the critical threshold of 10%, printability on a large area of the mixture donor polymers/acceptor fullerenes, as well as efficient and scalable syntheses of the donor polymers [10].
A large number of conjugated polymers alternating π-electron donor and π-electron acceptor units (D–A polymers) have been proposed in the literature [11], most of which were obtained via the well-known Suzuki and Stille cross-coupling polymerizations, and make use of organoboron and tin derivatives, respectively [12,13].
From industrial point of view, DHAP protocols bear indisputable advantages: synthetic simplicity, requiring cheap, readily available catalysts, and atom economy, since the preactivation of the donor component (Figure 1) using (hetero)aryl organometallic intermediates is not required.
This parameter clearly suggests that the synthesis of the monomers themselves is a key element for the scalability of the resultant donor polymer [15].
In this review, we will highlight recent examples of the use of DHA reactions for the construction of π-extended monomers, in order to establish a link between the current use of this relatively recent synthetic methodology, and the development of scalable monomers for OPV-BHJ low-cost donor polymers.
DTBTs are one of the most important building blocks in conjugated polymers for high-performance optoelectronic devices; the highest PCE achieved to date in a OPV-BHJ cell (11.5%) was obtained from a polymer (PBTff4T-2OD in Scheme 3) having DTBT unit as the acceptor of the D-A scaffold [8].
[39] in the synthetic route shown in Scheme 7 for the synthesis of the novel class of acceptor monomers thiophene-phenylene-thiophene fused bilactam (TPTBL) 40.
NMR and X-ray studies demonstrate the crosstalk occurring between the fused, coplanar and conjugated moieties, making these novel dyes with a donor-acceptor character.
Particularly, halogenated organic solvents are toxic and harmful for environment and human health, even though they help to control the morphology during the device fabrication, as well as optimize the interpenetrating network between electron donor and acceptor materials in the active layer [3,4].
One of the main advantages related to the WPNP dispersion approach is the creation of nanodomains (~10–20 nm) of donor and acceptor materials compatible with the exciton diffusion length [10,11,12,13,14].
Nanoparticles (NPs) composed of a blend containing organic semiconductor materials and acceptor molecules can be obtained mainly by two approaches: the miniemulsion method and the nanoprecipitation technique.
Moreover, fullerene materials display surface energy higher with respect to the electron donor polymers which causes the formation of core-shell WPNPs holding fullerene-rich core too [19,20].
Thus, a mild thermal annealing (close to glass transition temperature of the electron donor polymer) is necessary to obtain a highly intermixed donor–acceptor network to enable charge transport and extraction in the active layer.
The nanoprecipitation method involves the rapid injection of active materials dissolved in an organic solvent into an alcoholic medium with the formation of surfactant-free WPNPs with homogeneous distribution of donor and acceptor materials into the nanostructures [21,22].
The Janus morphology suits photovoltaic applications much better than the core–shell one, which minimizes the surface area between the donor and acceptor materials by decreasing the efficiency of the NP-OPVs [19,37].
This fact supports the idea that the self-assembly of amphiphilic block copolymers influenced the nanosegregation of the donor acceptor domains, as highlighted by the EFTEM images [63].
The PTB7-b-P4VP was also applied as a donor polymer for comparison in a conventional BHJ solar cell processed through organic solvent.
In fact, from the J-V curves and the corresponding PV parameters reported in Figure 7a and Table 3, it can be seen that device 1 has a lower open circuit voltage (VOC) with respect to device 2 (0.67 V and 0.63 V), probably because both PC71BM and PC61BM function as acceptor components [70].
In fact, in a core-shell morphology, the charges generated at the interphase acceptor core-donor shell are entrapped inside the NP and cannot reach the corresponding electrode, while in a Janus one, a moderate continuous conductive path addicted to the NP orientation can be more easily generated.
Unfortunately, the pre-determination of the nanodomain morphology is very challenging because it depends on a lot of parameters and conditions, such as the rod and coil block ratio, the donor and acceptor concentrations, their ratio, the organic phase during the miniemulsion preparation, and so on.
To gain further insight into the photovoltaic performances of the synthesized PTB7-b-P4VP donor polymer, a commercial PTB7 polymer was taken as a reference in a conventional PC71BM:PTB7 (1.5:1) blend device prepared from a chlorobenzene solution [75].
Unfortunately, this target cannot be reached through a higher molecular weight in the donor polymer because of synthetic issues.
The Janus morphology promotes interfaces between donor and acceptor materials and improves the interconnection between donor and acceptor domains.
Here we report experimental evidence of coherence in the charge separation process in organic donor/acceptor heterojunctions, in the form of low frequency oscillatory signature in the kinetics of the transient absorption and nonlinear two-dimensional photocurrent spectroscopy.
The physics may inspire the design of new photovoltaic materials with high device performance, which explore the quantum effects in the next-generation optoelectronic applications.Although coherent vibrational motion in donor-acceptor blends may contribute to photogeneration generation in organic solar cells (OSCs), proof of a direct correlation is still lacking.
In organic photovoltaics (OPVs), where the active layer consists of a nanostructured blend of donor (D) and acceptor (A) semiconductors, the key photophysical process is the generation of free charge carriers.
Based on recent results, it has been proposed that coherent vibrational motion of the donor and/or fullerene may contribute to the primary step of the photoinduced charge-separation process9,10.
Here, we have studied ternary organic photovoltaic blends, with two polymer donors (D1, D2) and one fullerene (A1) or non-fullerene acceptor.
We have found an oscillatory transient feature responsible for the ultrafast charge separation after the primary excitation, and the frequency of oscillation encompasses a number of low frequency vibrational modes of one of the donor units.
The energy transfer between two donors in the ternary blend demonstrates enhanced excited state population (Supplementary Fig. 2).
This short timescale (~100 fs) is consistent with the recently resolved ultrafast charge motion (~150 fs) at the donor/acceptor interface16, and it is attributed to rapid quenching of the excited states due to an ultrafast charge separation (CS) process (Fig. 1c).
It has been proposed that hybridization of donor and acceptor states can reduce the free energy barrier, making the excited state dissociate in an adiabatic process17.
A previous study has demonstrated that ultrafast charge separation at the donor/acceptor interface can be influenced by the fullerene aggregate size23,24.
Furthermore, we also rule out the possibility that varied interfacial areas between donor and acceptor25 contribute to the differences, as comparable interfacial areas are observed in the three devices (Supplementary Fig.
The vibrational mode can be attributed mainly to an in-plane breathing of the benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene donor unit in D1 (Fig.
The low vibrational mode (~200 cm−1) can be mainly attributed to the out-of-plane vibration of the 3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene donor unit in D1 (Fig.
To generalize the contribution of the ultrafast charge separation in OPVs performance, we also study blends with a non-fullerene acceptor (Supplementary Fig. 20).
ITIC has planar and rigid conformation and has been widely used in high efficiency donor/acceptor blends44.
Two common polymers PTB7-th (D1), (Poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl)]) and PCDTBT (D2), (poly[N-11W–henicosanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(40, 70-di-2-thienyl-20, 10, 30-benzothiadiazole)]), were used as electron donors.
The PC71BM (A1), (phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester) and small molecule ITIC44 (A2), (3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophene), were used as acceptors in this study.
By using different molecular weights and optimizing the donor phase loading ratios in the ternary D1:D2:A1 blend with respect to the binary blend, a substantial improvement in short-circuit current density (Jsc) and fill factor (FF), which resulted in a substantially increased power conversion efficiency of 9.5%.
Thin film morphology is a key factor determining the performance of bulk heterojunction organic solar cells through its influence on charge separation, charge transport and recombination losses in donor-acceptor blends [6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15].
In summary, we have suggested a model to study the structural and dynamical properties of OPV materials based on the use of PCBM (acceptor) and P3HT or P3BT (donors).
It is expected that the same procedure can be applied to other non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells, leading to an even higher efficiency with minimal effect on the environment.
In conclusion, by incorporating biosynthesized Au–Ag nanoparticles in PEDOT: PSS, a 24.7% improvement in power conversion efficiency (PCE) from 7.3% to 9.11% for non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells was observed.
Upon bulk doping of acceptor molecules into the homoepitaxial single crystals of rubrene, highly sensitive photoelectron yield spectroscopy (PYS) measurements unveiled a transition of the electronic states, from induction of hole states at the valence band maximum at an adequate doping ratio (10 ppm), to disturbance of the valence band itself for excessive ratios (≥ 1000 ppm), probably due to the lattice distortion.
Through rigorous tuning of the evaporation rates of the ‘host’ molecule and the dopant, introduction of FeCl3 molecules as an acceptor into the bulk crystal lattice of rubrene [Figure 1a] at accurately controlled concentrations down to the weight ratio of 1 ppm and of uniform spatial distributions was successfully achieved in that work [15].
Moreover, a single crystal homojunction was fabricated by doping of donor and acceptor molecules in either side of the homoepitaxial rubrene single crystal, and it was actually shown to exhibit a photovoltaic response [18].
Polymer solar cells based on PDPP5T and PCBM as donor and acceptor materials, respectively, were processed from aqueous nanoparticle dispersions.
One of its virtues is the ability to process the photoactive layers from solutions or inks, which enables high throughput printing and roll-to-roll coating, reducing the fabrication costs and giving the opportunity to use flexible substrates.1,2 Furthermore, advantages as light weight, thinness, semitransparency, and color tunability make OPV attractive for modern life applications.3−5 Driven by these benefits, considerable research efforts have been dedicated to improving the performance of OPV devices, resulting in numerous new semiconducting polymers with high charge carrier mobility and optimized energy alignment.6,7 Combined with a better understanding of the effect of polymer structure and processing on the electron donor–electron acceptor bulk heterojunction (BHJ) morphology, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPVs has increased to exceed 11% for single-junction solar cells.8−10 However, the vast majority of record efficiency solar cells have been processed from chlorinated solvents such as chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB), or chloroform, which are harmful to people’s health and environment.11−15 Processing the active layer from nonchlorinated solvents requires new insights and efforts to control the morphology.10,16
The thermal annealing of the active layer, which is essential to merge the aqueous NPs, also cause P3HT and [60]PCBM to crystallize and form large donor and acceptor domains that lower the performance.20,21 A comparison between P3HT that crystallizes under thermal treatment and a polymer that is crystalline as spun has been reported by Dam et al., where NPs have been synthesized from P3HT:[60]PCBM and poly[4,8-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)benzo(1,2-b:4,5-b′)dithiophene-alt-5,6-bis(octyloxy)-4,7-di(thiophen-2-yl) (2,1,3-benzothiadiazole)-5,5′-diyl] (PSBTBT):[60]PCBM.22 Scanning transmission X-ray microscopy (STXM) showed that in both cases a core–shell morphology was formed where the core was [60]PCBM-rich and the shell polymer-rich.
the shell composition can be optimized by varying the polymer:[60]PCBM ratio.21 Instead of using rather crystalline donor polymers such as P3HT and PSBTBT, Holmes et al.
When [60]PCBM is replaced by [70]PCBM as electron acceptor in the NPs, the optical absorption in the range of 400–600 nm increased (Supporting Information, Section 9).
This level of performance is comparable to optimized NP solar cells from other materials.22,23,25,33,35−37 For the NP cells with [70]PCBM as acceptor, we found a similar trade-off between an increasing JSC and decreasing FF for thicker films (Table 6) as that found for [60]PCBM (Table 3).
Here, our exploration of NMPAC as the CBL is inspired by its unique virtues of being structurally similar to the conventionally used fullerene acceptors (such as PCBM) and most importantly possible dipole moments at the interfaces provided by the four adducted N-methyl piperazine polarity groups.
After donor and acceptor being blended, the whole active layer is assumed as p-type semiconductor rather than insulator.
So the Fermi level of blend is in the vicinity of HOMO level of donor.
It is well-known that paralleled combination of resistance and capacitance accounts for the recombination process happened at the interface of donor and acceptor.
However, the most successful combination for the direct photostimulation of neurons at the interface was accomplished by combining the P3HT and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), where P3HT behaves as an electron donor material while PCBM behaves as an electron acceptor [17,132,137,138].
Organic donor–acceptor (D–A) co-crystals have attracted much interest due to their important optical and electronic properties.
We have co-crystallized a peri-xanthenoxanthene (PXX) donor with a N,N-bis(3-pentyl)-2,5,8,11-tetraphenylperylene-3,4:9,10-bis(dicarboximide) (Ph4PDI) acceptor to give an orthorhombic PXX–Ph4PDI ⋯DADA⋯ π-stacked co-crystal with a CT transition dipole moment that is perpendicular to the transition moments for Sn ← S0 excitation of PXX and Ph4PDI.
These energetic charge carriers may prove useful in applications ranging from photovoltaics and opto-electronics to photocatalysis.Femtosecond transient absorption microscopy of donor–acceptor single co-crystals shows that photogenerated charge transfer excitons in one-dimensional donor–acceptor π stacks annihilate to produce high-energy, long-lived electrons and holes.
Organic donor–acceptor (D–A) co-crystals have been shown to possess many interesting properties, among them: semiconducting behavior with appreciable ambipolar charge transport capabilities,1–8 tunable emission spectra,5,9–13 and ferroelectricity.5,9,14 These structures are also believed to be good candidates for organic field-effect transistors,15,16 organic photovoltaics,17–19 photonic logic,20,21 and near-IR photothermal imaging.22 An important feature of co-crystals having a ⋯DADA⋯ π-stacked morphology is their ability to form charge transfer (CT) excitons within D–A pairs.
Early work of Haarer and co-workers showed that photoexcitation of anthracene and phenanthrene co-crystals with pyromellitic dianhydride (PMDA) initially produces a singlet CT D˙+–A˙− exciton that can intersystem cross to give the corresponding triplet CT exciton.23–25 The CT exciton hopping rates along the one-dimensional ⋯DADA⋯ π-stacks within the co-crystal depend both on temperature and spin multiplicity with exciton trapping occurring at low temperatures and hopping rates being slower for singlet relative to triplet CT excitons.26–29 Several studies characterizing the CT ground state optical absorption as well as the steady-state and time-resolved photoluminescence of D–A co-crystals have been reported.2,11,12,20,21,30,31 Also, studies using ultrafast transient diffuse reflectance spectroscopy have been reported on a variety of co-crystal powders, including phenathrene32 and methylated benzenes33,34 co-crystallized with PMDA, and aromatic donors co-crystallized with tetracyanobenzene35,36 and tetracyanoquinodimethane37 acceptors.
Following photoexcitation, two photons create two singlet Frenkel excitons on Ph4PDI acceptor molecules, which then rapidly charge separate to create two CT excitons with a rate constant of kCS.
In a ⋯DADA⋯ π-stacked co-crystal, the donor and acceptor orbitals can mix and form delocalized crystal orbitals or bands, depending on the degree of D–A electronic coupling and energy differences.
S1†), while other spectral components are polarized perpendicular to this axis, and parallel to the donor and acceptor S1 ← S0 transition dipole moments (Fig.
To probe the ultrafast dynamics of CT excitons in D–A co-crystals, it is most informative to conduct femtosecond time-resolved spectroscopic measurements over a broad spectral range, taking advantage of the anisotropic absorption changes that can be directly related to the orientation of the donor and acceptor molecules relative to the crystal axes.
The code was written in C and is based on a previously used code for calculating the dynamical and optical properties of singlet fission materials.50 The modification of the code included an optically accessible charge-transfer state, the cationic and anionic parts of which were taken to couple to the intramolecular vibrations of the involved donor and acceptor molecules.
The excitation density of the pump pulses used to excite the co-crystal is 7 × 1019 cm−3 and the corresponding average fraction of CT excitons produced per number of donor–acceptor pairs in the excitation volume is about 0.13 (see ESI†).
The CT exciton state energy can be calculated from the redox potentials of the donor and acceptor, their Coulomb attraction energy and polarization energy of the charges interacting with their surrounding environment using:613where e is the charge of the electron, Eox and Ered are the oxidation and reduction potentials of the donor and acceptor, respectively, ε0 is the permittivity of free space, ε is the static dielectric constant of the medium, and rDA is the donor–acceptor distance, respectively, and the term U is an environmental correction to the redox potentials, often referred to in the solid state as the polarization energy of the charges on the crystal lattice.
Here we propose a donor-acceptor model for a generic organic photovoltaic cell in which the process of charge separation is modulated by a magnetic field which tunes the energy levels.
Despite presenting near unity absorbed photon-to-electron quantum efficiencies in a broad range of incident photon wavelengths, organic photovoltaic donor-acceptor (D-A) cells have overall power conversion efficiencies that do not surpass 11%1–4.
Another line of research emphasizes the role of charge transfer states at the distributed interface of the donor and acceptor moieties of the blend.
Thus a Coulomb bound electron-hole pair is formed, from which the electron rapidly migrates to the interface of the polymer with the acceptor material (fullerene derivative PCBM here), whereupon charge separation takes place and a net photocurrent is created, leading ultimately to electricity generation.
Thus a Coulomb bound electron-hole pair is formed, from which the electron rapidly migrates to the interface of the polymer with the acceptor material (fullerene derivative PCBM here), whereupon charge separation takes place and a net photocurrent is created, leading ultimately to electricity generation.
Importantly, notice that exciton dissociation happens with the hole remaining spatially fixed in the donor.
The process then has to be understood as the excited electron travelling to the polymer-fullerene interface, where long-range delocalisation of the electron wave function in eigenstates of the fullerene acceptor allows to avoid rapid recombination and enables ultrafast charge separation14.
Whenever acceptor structure allows for enough delocalisation of CT states, CT to triplet exciton is suppressed22, thus favouring FC formation from triplet CTs.
Donor-acceptor organic photovoltaic model in a magnetic field
However, whenever we are at room temperature, and following the simple design recipe demonstrated in ref.22 of having a well ordered acceptor should suffice to avoid this problem and turn the presence of a magnetic field into an advantage for OPVs performance, as well as a useful instrument to investigate the energy levels structure of the different solar cells.
As we are dealing with coherent spin evolution and incoherent state transitions, the latter having well known characteristic time-scales whose microscopic origin in the donor-acceptor material scaffold vibrations is unclear, and provided that the interesting dynamics lies well outside the time evolution domain where non-secular and non-Markovian effects are of relevance42; we choose the formalism of Lindblad-type master equation evolution for the seven possible energy levels present in the Hamiltonian Eq.
Moreover, they showed that tetrathiafulvalen electron donor molecules transform the remaining semiconducting SWNTs in an enriched metallic solution to metallic ones through charge transfer.
S-SWCNT-based photovoltaic cells operate as a type II heterojunction, usually incorporating an electron acceptor, such as fullerene-C60.
The charge separation can be maintained through conversion of electron-accepting oxoporphyrinogen unit to a donor by binding with fluoride anion.
Intramolecular donor–acceptor interaction of the monomer unit was photochemically stabilized, but the photolysis of 9,10-dialkoxyanthracenes was enhanced upon complexation with the cucurbit[8]uril.
Jin and co-workers demonstrated structural conversion between stacked arrays and Borromean rings using a dinuclear naphthalenediimide-based acceptor and linear bipyridyl ligands [152].
The former dinuclear naphthalenediimide unit possesses important features of dynamic coordination modes for flexible structural shifts and electron-deficient aromatic flat surface for donor–acceptor π-interaction.
Inclusion of donor guest such as pyrene molecules resulted in the formation of discrete aromatic stacking arrays with vertical π-conjugations.
reported fabrication of stacked p–n heterojunction arrays of nanowires of nanosized acceptor/donor domains through the self-assembly of structure-designed block copolymers (Figure 6) [162].
Block copolymers having C60 fullerene (acceptor part) and tetraphenylporphinatozinc(II) (donor part) synthesized by living ring-opening metathesis polymerization were self-assembled into one-dimensional nanowires with phase-segregated structures with ca.
In addition, the fabricated films exhibited repeatable photocurrent on/off switching in response to the white light irradiation.10.1080/14686996.2018.1553108-F0006Figure 6.Stacked p–n heterojunction arrays of nanowires of nanosized acceptor/donor domains formed through self-assembly of structure-designed block copolymers.
Stacked p–n heterojunction arrays of nanowires of nanosized acceptor/donor domains formed through self-assembly of structure-designed block copolymers.
These nanoarchitected materials would be useful for photovoltaic devices in combination with appropriate electron-donor molecules, such as porphyrin or pentacene.
Mechanical lateral deformation of the monolayer continuously changes the two-dimensional arrangements of hydrogen bond donor and acceptor sites, which can be further regulated through complexation of triazacyclononane to Li ions from aqueous phase.
A new acceptor unit, fluorinated thieno[2′,3′:4,5]benzo[1,2-d][1,2,3]triazole (fBTAZT), has been designed and synthesized to build two donor–acceptor (D–A) copolymers with the none/fluorinated benzodithiophene (BDT) unit, which have been applied as the electron-donating material with ITIC as an electron-accepting material to fabricate the nonfullerene polymer solar cells (PSCs).
As a result, when the fluorine atom is introduced both into the BTAZT unit and the side-chain thiophene ring of the BDT unit, the corresponding polymer PfBTAZT-fBDT exhibits deeper highest occupied molecular orbital–lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy level and shows stronger interchain interaction with a little broad and red-shift absorption and high charge mobilities as well as good phase-separated morphologies, thus leading to higher power conversion efficiency of 6.59% in nonfullerene PSCs compared with another polymer PfBTAZT-BDT without F atom at the BDT unit, indicating that fBTAZT can be acted as a medium strong organic acceptor to build D–A polymer donor for high efficient PSCs.
Polymer solar cells (PSCs) as a new energy have got a lot of attention because of their great merits of being lightweight, constitute flexible, and low-cost fabrication.1−7 Much recently, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of PSCs has been boosted from over 10–11%8,9 up to over 13–14%10−16 in single junction solar cells with a medium or wide band gap-conjugated polymer as a donor and narrow band gap n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) as an acceptor.
At present, a series of narrow band gap n-OS acceptors with excellent performance,17−33 such as ITIC,34 IEIC,35 and IDIC,36,37 have been reported.
With the rapid development of the narrow band gap n-OS acceptors, medium or wide band gap D–A polymeric donors draw the attention because of the complementary absorption for efficiently harvesting sunlight.38,39 The D–A copolymers based on the bithienylbenzodithiophene-alt-benzotriazole (BTA) backbone have been confirmed as highly efficient donor materials for nonfullerene PSCs.40−44 For D–A polymer designing,45 side-chain engineering was often used to the molecular design,46 especially for fluorine (F).
For example, Li et al.51 had reported a wide band gap polymer donor named J91, in which the introduction of two F atoms into the BTA unit and four F atoms into the side groups of the BDT unit resulted in great enhancement of the PCE from 4.80% of the polymer J50 without F atoms to 11.63% of the polymer J91.
Interestingly, it seems that the introduction of one or more F atoms onto the donor unit or/and acceptor unit of D–A copolymers may result in a distinct influence on the photovoltaic performance.52−55 For example, Hou and co-workers56 developed four D–A copolymers based on BDT and thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (TT) to investigate the influence of F atoms at different positions on the photovoltaic performances.
Recently, our group had reported several organic acceptors, such as thiophene-fused benzotriazole (BTAZT) and thiophene-fused benzothiadiazole (BTT), to build D–A copolymers for PSCs.
It has been found that the fusion of one thiophene ring at the side of BTAZ or BT unit can stabilize the quiniod population of the D–A conjugation backbone, thus to strengthen the intramolecular charge-transfer (ICT) effect and promote the short-circuit current density (Jsc).57−59 Therefore, in this work, a new BTA-based organic acceptor, fluorinated thieno[2′,3′:4,5]benzo[1,2-d][1,2,3]triazole (fBTAZT), has been designed, in which fluorine (F) is introduced at α-position of the fused thiophene ring at the BTAZT unit to further regulate HOMO–lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels and the photophysical properties.
In this work, fBTAZT as a new organic acceptor has been designed and Scheme 1 presents the synthetic process of fBTAZT unit and two polymers (PfBTAZT-BDT and PfBTAZT-fBDT).
Afterward, under the protection of argon, butyl lithium was applied to remove hydrogen from the α-position of the fused thiophene at BTAZT and the fluorinating reagent (PhSO2)2NF was added to complete the fluorination to yield 6-fluoro-2-(2-hexyldecyl)-2H-thieno[2′,3′:4,5]benzo[1,2-d][1,2,3]triazole (fBTAZT) (5) (yield, 59.1%), which can be acted as a new organic acceptor unit to construct the D–A copolymer.
Because of very strong electronegativity of F atom, the import of F atom onto the conjugation backbone has become one of the effective strategies to regulate the HOMO–LUMO energy level of the acceptor or donors for enhancing the open voltage (Voc), and to strengthen the intermolecular interaction for improving the charge mobility and further increasing the short-circuit current density (Jsc) of the PSCs.
To evaluate the photovoltaic properties of the polymer-based organic solar cells, ITIC has been chosen as a small nonfullerene acceptor (A) with these two polymers (PfBTAZT-BDT or PfBTAZT-fBDT) as the donor (D) to build active layer, and the corresponding PSC devices with an inverted structure of indium tin oxide/ZnO/copolymer/ITIC/MoO3/Ag were fabricated.
In summary, the fBTAZT unit has been designed and synthesized and it has been applied to build two new D–A copolymers with the none/fluorine-substituted benzodithiophene (BDT) donor unit for PSCs.
The photovoltaic performances of the PSCs based on the polymers as the donor and ITIC as the acceptor have been investigated, and it is found that PfBTAZT-fBDT-based devices exhibit higher Voc than the PfBTAZT-BDT, which is attributed to its lower HOMO energy level because of more fluorine atoms introduced onto the conjugation backbone.
In order to avoid photoinduced dimerization, considerable attention has recently been focused on non-fullerene acceptor (NFA)-based devices.
Dimerization also occurs in NFAs if the energetic alignment between donor and acceptor allows for back-hole transfer, back-electron transfer, or inter-system crossing8,17.
Structural decomposition of acceptors such as IT-4F14,20 occurs near to zinc oxide surfaces and under the influence of oxygen.
2a), showing that the diffusion length of excitons—mainly generated in pure donor or acceptor domains—relative to the donor–acceptor domain size is still sufficient to harvest the major fraction of singlet excitons for charge photogeneration.
As the optical bandgap around 1.4 eV is dominated by Y6 absorption, the reciprocity suggests that the acceptor also dominates the emission26.
[  18  ] Furthermore, exploiting the high extinction coefficient of J‐aggregates as donor material in hybrid organic/inorganic systems (in particular, J‐aggregate/quantum dots, QDs) has shown to significantly improve the properties of the hybrid system,[  4 ,  5 ,  19  ] caused by the efficient Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) process between the donor (J‐aggregates) and acceptor (QDs).
The efficiency of non‐radiative FRET energy transfer depends inversely on the sum of radiative PL rate and non‐radiative decay rate of the donor in the absence of the acceptor.
Hence, it is of paramount importance to minimize the non‐radiative recombination of excitons or, in other words, to increase the PLQY of the donor (i.e., J‐aggregates).
Using J‐aggregates as donor and silver bromide (AgBr) as acceptor, the electron transfer process upon excitation of J‐aggregates was investigated.
As the conductivity of semiconductors depends directly on the charge carrier density, it can be temporarily influenced by photo-generated electron-hole pairs into the material (i.e., transitions of electrons from the valence band or donor levels to the conduction band).
Considering the bandgap of anatase TiO2 [60,61], photo-excitation by wavelengths above 400 nm mainly involves electrons from the donor band while UV excitation mainly involves electrons initially in the valence band.
Thiophene core containing fused ring-type non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) achieved significant proficiency for highly efficient OSCs.
A series of extended conjugated A−π–D−π–A architectured novel fused-ring NFAs (FUIC-1-FUIC-6) containing thieno[2,3-b]thiophene-based donor core are proposed by substituting the end-capped units of synthesized molecule F10IC.
Charge transfer analysis of the best-designed molecule with the donor complex was analyzed to comprehend the efficiency of novel constructed molecules (FUIC-1–FUIC-6) and compared with the reference.
End-caped acceptor alteration induces the reduction of the energy gap between HOMO–LUMO (1.88 eV), tunes the energy levels, longer absorption in the visible and near-infrared regions, larger Voc, smaller reorganizational energies, and binding energy values in designed structures (FUIC-1–FUIC-6) in comparison to reference (FUIC).
The designed molecules show the best agreement with the PTBT-T donor polymer blend and cause the highest charge from the HOMO to the LUMO orbital.
Energy is essential for financial progression and human survival, but its resources are decreasing daily.1 The most acceptable source of renewable energy is solar cells since they are clean, non-polluting, have a low cost, are distributed worldwide, and are non-exhaustive.2 A solar cell is a device that converts sunlight directly into electrical energy via the photovoltaic effect.3−5 Organic solar cells, also known as OSCs, have become fascinating because of their benefits of being inexpensive, having a vast selection of organic materials, being solution processable, and having the potential to be used in large-area devices.6−8 To increase the OSC power conversion efficiencies (PCEs), light-absorbing materials have been widely studied.9 In fact, the device physic also plays a vital role in improving the performance of OSCs.10−13 As an alternative to fullerenes in organic photovoltaics, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) enable the rapid progress of OSCs with higher PCEs.14−16 Recently reported fused-ring acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A)-type organic compounds containing effective two-photon absorption have resulted in a significant increase in photovoltaic competence OSCs.17−19 Since they are electronically coupled in-plane to acceptor groups at the molecule’s edge, electron-rich cores, planar, stiff, and highly delocalized π-systems, these materials’ structural motifs are also intriguing for two-photon absorption (2PA).20,21 Examples with strong, long wavelength 1PA are likely candidates for strong 2PA that extend into the near-infrared (NIR).
created quadrupolar A–D–A architecture based on fused-ring-type organic chromophores (F10IC).24 The F10IC has thieno[3,2-b]thiophene at its core as a donor, and indacene (IND)-centered analogues serve as the electron acceptors in the F10IC.
In the scientific literature, modifications to the size, planarity, functionalization, and geometry of compounds containing π-conjugated fused rings have been shown to substantially influence the compounds’ optoelectronic competencies.20,21 The addition of spacers among terminal moieties, conjugated rings of donors, and additional electron-withdrawing and conjugated acceptors can improve the photovoltaic characteristics of molecular frameworks.25,26 The amount of quadrupolar ground-to-excited-state charge transfer (CT) is also controllable by adjusting the strength of the acceptor (A).
Using electron-deficient and rich structural motifs for building OSCs is one of the molecular engineering techniques for designing non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).
Through the flexible structural adjustability, such a combination of electron-donating and electron-withdrawing moiety could create an electron donor–acceptor (D–A) architecture that is advantageous for adjusting the frontier orbital levels, band gap, light-absorption capacity, intramolecular CT, and intermolecular charge separation and recombination.27−29
Under these assumptions, it is intended to change the IND-centered analogues of the F10IC with strong reported end-capped acceptors with efficient electron-withdrawing features for developing innovative non-fullerene acceptors while maintaining the donor core of the thieno[3,2-b]thiophene.
Charge-transfer analysis was also carried out on the optimally designed molecules in conjunction with the suitable donor complexes, and the results were compared to those of the reference molecule (FUIC).
The focus of this study is to construct and investigate novel A−π–D−π–A quadrupolar-type fused-ring, highly conjugated acceptors with improved optoelectronic assets for their usage in solar cells.
For this, F10IC,24 which is a novel fused-ring, highly conjugated, A−π–D−π–A backbone having thieno[2,3-b] thiophene-based core as the donor moiety and 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile as end-capped acceptor groups with significant electron-withdrawing properties,24 is used as a reference molecule (F10IC) in this report.
In structural tailoring of the reference F10IC, the acceptor unit of F10IC is switched using six dissimilar designed end-capped acceptors (1–6), as represented in Scheme 1, and six novel A−π–D−π–A acceptor molecules (FUIC-1–FUIC-6) are being proposed for promising photovoltaic and optoelectronic applications.
The central donor core was kept fixed while end-capped units were changed to design the similar core-based efficient new molecules.
The names of the end-capped acceptors (1–6) are mentioned in Scheme 1.
Overall, CN, COOCH3, and NO2 containing units in end-capped acceptors 2, 4, and 6 lowered the energy gap than the reference.
Charge resides on the donor core in HOMO and on the acceptors in case of LUMO.
Through prolonged conjugation bridges, the charge was transferred from the donor HOMO to the LUMO end cap, creating a charge separation state that should improve the photocatalytic activity of these newly created near-infrared sensitive NFAs.
It can forecast the percentage contribution value for all the fragments present in the molecule.36,37 It also gives important information about charge distribution.38Figure 4 represents the percentage impact of the donor and acceptor sections in each molecule.
Regarding FUIC, 84.7% of the contribution was from donors and 15.3% from acceptors in the case of HOMO.
In contrast, the trend was reversed in the case of LUMO, that is, 43.1% of donors and 56.9% of acceptors.
For donors, the percentage contribution values of HOMO are 80.3, 83.2, 84.3, 84.3, 83.8, and 83.2 for FUIC-1, FUIC-2, FUIC-3, FUIC-4, FUIC-5, and FUIC-6, respectively.
Consequently, for acceptors, percentage contribution of HOMO is 19.7, 16.8, 15.7, 15.7, and 16.8%, for FUIC-1, FUIC-2, FUIC-3, FUIC-4, FUIC-5, and FUIC-6, respectively.
In donors, the percentage contribution values of LUMO are 33.1, 37.0, 39.8, 38.4, 43.8, and 34% for FUIC-1, FUIC-2, FUIC-3, FUIC-4, FUIC-5, and FUIC-6, respectively.
Ultimately, in acceptors, these values are 66.9, 63.0, 60.2, 61.6, 56.2, and 66.0%, for FUIC-1, FUIC-2, FUIC-3, FUIC-4, FUIC-5, and FUIC-6 correspondingly.
All evidence points to the terminal acceptor part of designed compounds being more densely inhabited by LUMO states than the central core HOMO states.
For an intramolecular CT to occur, there must be a movement of charge density from the donor via the bridge and finally to the end-capped acceptors.
End-capped acceptors affect the λmax values of all investigated molecules because of electron-withdrawing groups present in the end-capped units.
The λmax of FUIC-1 is 780.01 nm (in the solvent) and 729.87 nm in the gas phase, which are slightly greater than the FUIC molecule due to the occurrence of chloro (Cl) on end-capped acceptors.
The acceptor 3 contains two ester groups (COOCH3) in the FUIC-3 molecule that cause higher absorption values of 803.26 nm (in the solvent) and 732.41 nm (in the gas phase) than to FUIC, FUIC-1, and FUIC-5.
The combined effect of (COOCH3) and (CN) groups on end-capped acceptor 4 are smaller than end-capped acceptor 3.
FUIC-5 molecule shows λmax values of 788.79 nm in the solvent and 728.24 nm in the gas phase, which is smaller than all other designed molecules because of the lower effect of five terminal acceptors (end-capped).
The reason is that the end-capped acceptors contain two nitro (NO2) groups with the highest pulling effect and extended conjugation in contrast to all other groups.
The ascending order of end-capped acceptors’ capability is 6 > 2 > 4 > 3 > 1 > 5, which is identical to their performance in reducing energy band gaps.
The UV spectra of FUIC and FUIC-1–FUIC-6 computed in both gas and solvent phases are illustrated in Figure 5a,b, which show that end-capped acceptors had a remarkable impact on the values of λmax by promoting the absorption in near IR spectra with lower excitation energy and same significant MO contribution in all of the investigated molecules.
Alteration of end-capped (acceptor moieties) is a powerful technique to fine-tune the optoelectronic characteristics by reducing the transition energy and increasing the absorption values, as shown in the previous discussion.
Another valuable tool used to measure the overall CT between donor and acceptor components is reorganizational energy.41 In most cases, two distinct forms of reorganizational energy exist.
A larger Voc is a result of a faster rate of electron transport from the donor HOMO to the acceptor LUMO.
PTBT-T is the most commonly used donor material in the literature.
In this work, we took PTBT-T as a donor polymer.
The results acquired from eq 1 conducted concerning HOMOPTBT-T–LUMOacceptorEg are shown in Figure 6.
TDM is another valuable technique to estimate the transition between the donor and acceptor parts in the excited state.45 The hydrogen (H) atoms play no role in transition; basically, they are ignored.
Charge is found to be shifted in the acceptor segment with atom numbers 31–61 in all studied molecules.
The presence of electron coherence in investigated molecules FUIC and FUIC-1–FUIC-6 assures that charge consistency effectively transfers from the central donor part to the bridging unit, facilitating the shifting of electrons without tapping them.
As a result, these constructed compounds can be used as good acceptor molecules in OSCs.
For this, the acceptor molecules are modeled into a layer that contains a well-known and well-characterized donor.
To facilitate electron transport between donor and acceptor moieties, the core regions of FUIC-6 and PBDT-T are arranged in a parallel fashion.
The HOMO charge is localized on the donor polymer, while the LUMO charge is dispersed across the FUIC-6 acceptor molecule.
There is promising evidence that tailored molecules can be useful in real-world solar cell applications, thanks to the transmission of charge density from the donor (HOMO) to the acceptor (LUMO) layer in the PBDT-T/FUIC-6 blend (Figure 9).
In silico engineering of thieno[2,3-b]thiophene core-based non-fullerene acceptors will lead to new developments in the next years, such as non-fullerene electron acceptors with larger solar spectrum absorption and fine optoelectronic characteristics.
In conclusion, advanced quantum chemical methods have been utilized to investigate the behavior of CT, structure–activity, photovoltaic and optoelectronic characteristics of six novel fused-ring, highly conjugated A−π–D−π–A designed structures FUIC-1-FUIC-6 designed by substituting the end-capped acceptors and compared with FUIC molecules.
The HOMO–LUMO energy gap values of FUIC-1–FUIC-6 are reduced to 2.01–1.88 eV by end-capped acceptor substitution compared with FUIC 1.99 eV.
According to all analyses, FUIC-6 is the best and most efficient molecule among all investigated compounds because of its electron-withdrawing capacity and prolonged conjugation of the terminal acceptors (end-capped) of FUIC-6 due to the presence of NO2 groups.
It possesses excellent photovoltaic features like less band gap (1.88 eV), lowest λe = 0.00431856 eV and λh = 0.00806781 eV, largest λmax values 862.31 nm (in solvent) and 776.98 nm (in gas), and Voc = 1.1 V concerning HOMOPTBT-T–LUMOacceptor.
Our findings indicate that the designed structures, especially FUIC-6, are efficient acceptor moieties employed as hole- and electron-transporting material in OSCs with outstanding photovoltaic characteristics and can be used in future high-performance OSC systems.
The DOS for all investigated molecules was calculated and displayed using PyMOlyze 2.056 software to determine the percentage impact of acceptor and donor fragments for radiation absorption.
In addition, the complex (Eu(tta)3ppta) consists of donor-acceptor blocks and a large conjugated system in the ligand (ppta) and the Eu(tta)3, respectively, providing charge trapping sites for the designed memory363738.
Herein, we disclose that volume-conserving photoisomerization of a unique series of acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) acts as a surrogate towards their subsequent photochemical reaction.
Although other reasons associating with the photostabilities of molecules and devices should not excluded, we believe this work provides helpful structure-property information toward new design of stable and efficient photovoltaic molecules and solar cells.Non-fullerene acceptors have contributed hugely to the best-performing organic solar cells, yet the photo-degradation remains a hurdle preventing the practical application.
In this work, research group from Zhejiang University discovers non-fused acceptors with excellent photochemical tolerance in aerobic condition, and identify the main degradation pathway.
It is because that the intrinsic photostabilities of organic photovoltaic materials, especially for the high-efficiency acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) are not ideal yet that could degrade under illumination in ambient14–16.
Recently, semi-fused and non-fused ring acceptors (SFRAs and NFRAs) have been developed16,22–24, which possess relatively low synthetic complexities and decent PCEs.
To our surprise, among them, NFRA PTIC exhibits a steady absorption profile even after 32-h one-sun-equivalent illumination in ambient, suggesting a photostable A–D–A acceptor16.
Exceptionally, we reveal non-fused acceptors, representing one of the rare existing samples, exhibit appearing characteristics of both good photochemical tolerance and photovoltaic performance.
And the fused ring acceptor, such as Y6, fitting well with this guidance, has also achieved the enhanced photostability.
Even though, there should not exclude other reasons associating with the photostabilities of non-fullerene acceptors and solar cells.
The photostability of PTIC remains distinct as well in the bulk heterojunction blend with polymer donor, PBDB-TF, wherein PTIC maintains absorption characteristics well while the fast decay of polymer (Supplementary Fig. 3).
The photochemical degradation of a conjugated polymer, as electron donors, would involve a chain radical oxidation process, similar to that of P3HT27.
g Energy levels for different acceptors.
g Energy levels for different acceptors.
While those electron acceptors have commonalities in optical bandgap and energy levels, PTIC exhibits exceptional photostabilities in both solution and film, over other studied examples.
In addition to Sp3 carbon-free planar backbones, we further examine the effect of terminal side chain on the photostability of NFAs, by comparing non-fused acceptors with the same backbone, PTIC (with hexyl chain) and PTICH (without hexyl chain) (Supplementary Fig. 19).
Still, NFRA acceptors are more stable than those of model compounds, which can therefore be attributed to two main structural factors: the planar non-fused skeleton and outward hexyl chains, leading to exceptional photostabilities of A–D–A NFAs.Fig.
With the same polymer donor PBDB-TF, OSCs based on IT-4F exhibit PCE of 11% (Voc = 0.87 V, Jsc = 18.27 mA cm−2, FF = 0.70), which are close to those with HF-PCIC (PCE of 10.06% with Voc = 0.91 V, Jsc = 17.00 mA cm−2, and FF = 0.65,) and PTIC (PCE of 10.28% with Voc = 0.93 V, Jsc = 16.49 mA cm−2, and FF = 0.68) (Supplementary Table 2).
In the context of using this material as the p-sublayer of p–i–n-type OPVs, its μh should be at least the same level as that of the donor material in the i-sublayer for assuring efficient hole extraction.
The donor material employed in this study is 2,6-di[5′-(2-ethylhexyl)-2,2′-bithien-5-yl]anthracene (EBDBTA), shown in the next section, and its μh has been estimated to be 6.4 × 10−5 cm2 V−1 s−1 (Figure S18).
The donor compound in the i-sublayer, EBDBTA [19], is the material of choice because of its synthetic accessibility and consistency in performance.
[  7  ] The easy oxidation of Sn(II), due to the inherently low potential of the Sn(II)/Sn(IV) couple of only 0.15 V versus SHE (standard hydrogen electrode),[  8  ] induces the formation of Sn vacancies, which act as acceptor levels,[  9  ] positively doping the material and severely limiting the diffusion carrier length.
A large number of either naphthalene or perylene tetracarboxylic diimides have been synthesized and investigated, and many of them have achieved high electron mobilities and air stability.10,12,13 Naphthalene- and perylenediimides are studied as acceptor molecules in organic solar cells.14−16 A study has been devoted to examining the linker effect at the N-position in a core-substituted diimide and such compounds given power conversion efficiencies between 0.01 and 0.48%.
The authors used a phenyl linkage between thiophene and diimide through the N-position, which is also the scope of this paper, resulting in a 0.43% power conversion efficiency.17 Researchers at the University of Washington18 studied the effect of processing additives on the performance of naphthalenediimide acceptors, showing that when used with proper hole- and electron-blocking layers, naphthalenediimide-bearing device structures can reach a power conversion efficiency of 1.50%.
Among perylenediimides there are two prominent studies, one of which was conducted by Bazan et al.19 and was a comparative study where they used 7,7′-(4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-silolo[3,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl)bis(6-fluoro-4-(5′-hexyl-[2,2′-bithiophen]-5-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole) (p-DTS(FBTTh2)2) as the donor molecule and compared the acceptor behavior of PC71BM and perylenediimide (PDI).
On the other hand, five-membered imide rings, that is, phthalic diimides, are rather occasionally investigated as semiconductors.10,21−24 Nevertheless, they show completive power conversion efficiencies among their solution-processable small-molecule acceptor counterparts.
Recently, research efforts have been focused on the development of alternating compounds consisting of segments of different electron-donating/accepting (D/A) properties and resulting in a low band gap.2,3,35−37 By selection of the donor and acceptor units, the compound architecture enables modification of the energy levels of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO), energy gap, and charge transport ability.37 Among various D–A conjugated systems, azomethine diimide-based compounds from small molecules and polymers constitute a promising family of materials whose properties can be explored in (opto)electronic devices.
The regioregular P3HT with a HOMO level of about −4.8 eV and LUMO level of about -2.7 eV was applied as the donor in the photovoltaic devices.
Taking into account the photovoltaic parameter, which depends on the chemical structure of the active layer, which determines the HOMO level of the donor and LUMO level of the acceptor and UV–vis properties, that is, the open-circuit voltage (VOC), it can be seen that the device comprising P3HT with azomethine phthalic diimide end-capped with thiophene rings showed significantly lower VOC.
Bulk heterojunctions (BHJs), composed of donor and acceptor molecules, are one approach to addressing these challenges.
In BHJs, deposition is focused on maximizing the surface area between the donor and acceptor molecules to increase the probability of charge separation.
However, the atomic-scale disorder at the donor-acceptor junctions often leads to high densities of interfacial states that act as recombination centers.
Previous efforts to increase VOC in BHJs have generally focused on two approaches: (i) controlling morphology, often by employing carbon nanotube scaffolds1,2 or nanostructured surfaces3,4 and/or (ii) incorporating multiple acceptor layers to optimize band alignment between donor, acceptor, and electrode5.
Our results display the generation of an electron-hole pair in the donor and its subsequent migration to the donor-acceptor interface.
In high-performance OSCs, the donor-acceptor (D-A) heterojunction provides an internal electrochemical force that drives exciton dissociation.
It is generally believed that the following processes occur to transform the energy of absorbed sunlight into electrical power: Photoinduced Frenkel excitons diffuse to the D-A interfaces and dissociate into holes on the donor and electrons on the acceptor (6, 14), and the resulting free carriers migrate through the conducting channels and thus give rise to photocurrent.
In this work, we use an innovative computational method, real-time time-dependent density functional tight binding for open systems (TDDFTB-OS), combined with Ehrenfest molecular dynamics (MD) to simulate the electron-hole pair photogeneration in the donor, electron-hole pair migration to and dissociation into free electrons and holes at the D-A interface, and the subsequent free charge transport and occurrence of photocurrent in electron- and hole-conducting materials.
As an electron transfers across the D-A interface, another electron would exit the simulation system via the boundary at the acceptor side to keep the charge balance of the acceptor region; in the meantime, an electron enters the acceptor side of the simulation system to keep the charge balance of the donor region.
The core processes that we are interested in occur in the active layer composed of donor and acceptor materials.
Because of the limitation of computational resources, we can only model a small representative volume of the active layer, which consists of a small section of donor (or hole conducting) materials, a small section of acceptor (or electron conducting) materials, and the D-A interface.
1A) as a minimal representative fragment of the widely investigated blend of the donor poly-3-heylthiophene (P3HT) and acceptor [6,6]-phenyl-C61 butyric acid methyl ester, respectively (7, 37–41).
The simulation region consists of three T6 and three C60 units and is sandwiched between semi-infinite repeating donor and acceptor molecular units.
(A) Illustration of the system setup, where donor T6 and acceptor C60 molecular units in the simulation region (D) are named T6-1 to C60-3.
Subsequently, the electron-hole pair hops to the adjacent donor units and delocalizes over the T6-1 and T6-3 units at ~10 fs (see the second dashed line in Fig.
When electrons reach the right surface at 31.6 fs (fourth dashed line), the negative valued right current (red line) through SR starts to emerge, indicating that electrons are leaving the simulation region through SR. As more electrons transfer to the acceptor units and reach SR (see t = 50.8 fs of Fig.
The amplitude of Δρ(r, t) of acceptors in the bottom panel is multiplied by 4 for better illustration.
Here, we denote the highest occupied and lowest unoccupied states of donor and acceptor as HOS and LUS, respectively.
It is shown that the energy gap between the donor’s LUS and the acceptor’s LUS + 1 is only ~0.2 eV.
Thus, when an electron-hole pair migrates to the interface, the electron can predominantly move from the donor’s LUS to the acceptor’s LUS + 1.
In contrast, the transfer of holes is suppressed owing to a large energy gap (~1.4 eV) between two HOSs of the donor and the acceptor.
We first analyze the evolutions of charge carriers with a simple partition of the system into the donor and the acceptor.
On the donor side (left panel), it is observed that electrons start to be excited from HOS to LUS at ~7.5 fs, which is consistent with the time that an electron-hole pair is formed, as seen in Fig.
On the acceptor side (right panel), a more substantial increase of nLUS + 1 is observed as compared to nLUS, indicating that the dissociation of the electron-hole pair at the D-A interface mainly results in electron transfer from the donor’s LUS to the acceptor’s LUS + 1.
Note that the acceptor’s ΔnLUS+1 ≈ 0.1, much less than the donor’s ΔnLUS.
A small electron-hole pair is observed between the HOS and LUS of the acceptor at 20 fs and remains beyond 100 fs, which can also be seen in the real-space distributions in Fig.
3C, electron-hole pairs transfer from T6-2 to other donor molecules, and electrons transfer subsequently from C60-1 to C60-2, and lastly to C60-3.
In addition, the trend of total population nT6s sumLUS and nCs60 sumLUS+1 (solid black lines) agrees well with ndonorLUS and nacceptorLUS+1 (dashed lines), showing the consistency of two different FMO partitioning schemes.
FMO populations of donor and acceptor.
(A) DOS of donor T6 (blue line, left panel) and acceptor C60 (orange line, right panel) coupled to the environment.
(B) The evolution of the induced population Δn for selected MOs in the donor (left) and acceptor region (right).
(C) The evolution of the induced population Δn for selected molecular orbitals of three donor units (left) and three acceptor units (right).
Each curve corresponds to a single donor/acceptor unit.
The red (brick red) dashed lines are identical to nLUS of the donor (nLUS+1 of the acceptor) shown in (B).
(E to G) Comparison among Δqpos/neg (time interval = 0.4 fs), Δnocc/vir, and atomic charge contributed from occupied (Δqocc) and virtual (Δqvir) FMO occupation for the donor region (E), a donor unit T6-3 (F), and a thiophene ring in T6-3 (G).
Figure 4E presents the time evolutions of Δqdonorpos/neg and Δndonorvir/occ for the donor region.
Figure 4F shows the induced charges (ΔqT6‐3pos/neg) and electron/hole (ΔnT6‐3vir/occ) of a single donor molecule T6-3 at the interface, which again shows similar agreement.
Δqdonorvir/occ (ΔqT6‐3vir/occ) recovers Δndonorvir/occ (ΔnT6‐3vir/occ) when contributions of all atoms in the donor region or a donor molecule are summed up, as shown in Fig.
Using the Ehrenfest TDDFTB-OS method, we convincingly simulate the detailed dynamics of the photoexcitation of an electron-hole pair in the donor material, pair dissociation into electron and hole at the D-A interface, and electron and hole transport in respective conducting layers leading to emerging photocurrent.
Once it is excited instantaneously upon the absorption of a photon, an electron-hole pair migrates in the donor layer and may reach the D-A interface.
The electron within the electron-hole pair that reaches the interface hops onto the selective unoccupied molecular orbitals (UMOs) of the acceptor materials, either because the orbital energies of the selective UMOs match that of the electron or, if they do not exactly match, because the electron may transfer some energy onto phonons and hops onto the energetically matched UMOs.
When an electron-hole pair dissociates at the D-A interface, the electron does not necessarily hop onto the acceptor’s LUMO, but rather onto the MO whose orbital energy matches or is closest to that of the electron.
In our case, the electrons predominantly move from donor’s LUS to acceptor’s LUS + 1.
This provides insight into designing donor and acceptor materials to enhance efficiencies of dissociation in organic or hybrid nanomaterials based on the electronic structures of these materials.
Furthermore, besides the dissociation of electron-hole pairs at a D-A interface, excitation energy transfer from donor to acceptor is also observed on the same time scale in both Figs.
The external field is modeled as a short Gaussian-enveloped cosine optical pulse E(t)=−E0cos[ω(t−tc)]exp[−(t−tc)2/2(FWHM2.3458)2] with E0 = 0.06 eV·bohr−1; ℏω = 2.1 eV, which matches the strongest absorption peak of donor thiophene molecules; tc = 10 fs; and FWHM = 4 fs.
Note that we can expand the simulation region to include more donor/acceptor units or use larger structures given modern high-performance computing clusters.
Graphene quantum dots (GQDs) have attracted a great deal of attention in photovoltaic applications due to a series of excellent properties such as high carrier transport mobility, large surface area, tunable band gaps, quantum confinement, and environmentally friendly nature.1−8 Unremitting efforts have been made in the preparation of GQDs and their application as the electron-acceptor materials in the active layer of organic solar cells.9−13 However, hybrid solar cells that completely replaced the original electron-acceptor materials with GQDs in the heterojunction active layer did not perform well.
Worse, the performances of these hybrid solar cells are even much lower than those of the devices assembled with the original electron-acceptor material.11,13 For example, Li et al.
used GQDs prepared by the electrochemical approach in the aqueous phase system to completely replace the fullerence derivative (6,6)-phenyl-C61 butyric acid methylester (PCBM), which is the representative electron-acceptor material, and obtained a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 1.28%.11 Gupta et al.
Ternary blend organic solar cells, which have the advantage of well absorbtion and utilization of solar irradiation using the three materials of donors/acceptor with complementary absorptions, have attracted great attention for improving the device performance.
Besides, the simple fabrication process of the single-junction device and the potential synergistic interaction among three active materials make it more competitive.14−18 Recently, ternary hybrid solar cells using GQDs as the second electron acceptor material were also fabricated by the community to obtain better performance.
have fabricated ternary hybrid solar cells based on the active layer of PCDTBT:PC71BM:GQDs and achieved a 21% enhancement of the PCE compared to the device based on the active layer without GQDs.20 Although the device performance of ternary hybrid solar cells can be significantly improved by employing GQDs as the second electron acceptors, the different effect of GQDs in the film morphology of the active layer between binary and ternary solar cells has not been compared and investigated comprehensively.
It was well-known that the film morphology of the active layer would be strongly influenced by the number, type, and ratio of the electron-donor/acceptor materials.
These differences between the binary and ternary hybrid solar cells have been studied in many research studies;21−23 however, to the best of our knowledge, only few studies have focused simultaneously on the difference between binary and ternary hybrid solar cells using GQDs as an electron acceptor.
Because the Voc of the organic solar cells is proportional to the offset between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor, it increases from 0.45 to 0.56 V gradually with the increase in acceptor (GQDs) content from 0.25 to 1% for the binary hybrid solar cells.
The decrease of the Voc from 0.56 to 0.45 V with the increase in content of GQDs from 2.0 to 4.0% is attributed to the addition of excess GQDs, which would result in much agglomeration and prevent donor (P3HT) and acceptor (GQDs) from mixing evenly.
In the binary solar cell, the GQDs act as electron acceptors.
The increments suggest that the roles of GQDs in ternary hybrid solar cells were more than that of a sole electron acceptor as in binary solar cells.
The morphology of the interpenetrating donor–acceptor networks has been well constructed with the optimizing of content of GQDs accompanying with nanoscale phase separation, which results in a large interfacial area for efficient charge generation.
The uniform morphology results in the enhancement of the exciton migration to the donor–acceptor interface, leading to a decrease in the resistance and a corresponding increase in the performance of the solar cells.27,41,42 Thus, the maximum value of PCE was obtained from the cell with 1% GQDs.
The maximum PCE value of ternary hybrid solar cell (P3HT:PCBM:GQDs) was improved by 40% compared with that of the control group (P3HT:PCBM), which was contributed by the enhancement of exciton separation and charge transport processes with the help of GQDs as an electron acceptor and charge transport channel.
The synergistic interaction between GQDs and PCBM helps donor/acceptor to mix evenly and obtain a uniform film morphology of the active layer.
For this purpose, polymers were designed by placing electron donor and acceptor units alternately in a polymer chain.
In addition to the basic policy of band-gap reduction by strong interaction between electron donor units and electron acceptor units, planar donor units were introduced, giving an expansion of conjugation and high hole mobility, which are important for the carrier transfer after photogenerated charge separation.
By introducing terthiophene (3T) with alkylation to promote ordering via side-chain interdigitation, it was assumed that combining BTI or TPD as the in-chain acceptor with 3T as the in-chain donor could imbue poly[5-(2-hexyldodecyl)-1,3-thieno [3,4–c] pyrrole-4,6-dione-alt-5,5-(2,5-bis (3-dodecylthiophen-2-yl)-thiophene)] (PTPD3T) and poly[N-(2-hexyldodecyl)-2,2′-bithiophene-3, 3′-dicarboximide-alt-5,5-(2,5-bis(3-decylthiophen-2-yl)-thiophene)] (PBTI3T).
Chemical structures of polymer donors (PTPD3T, PBTI3T) and fullerene acceptor (PC71BM) [75].
In this work, we investigate the charge transfer dynamics of a donor-acceptor pair, which is widely used as a building block in low bandgap block copolymers for organic photovoltaics.
The charge transfer from a donor to an acceptor plays a central role in photoinduced processes in both natural and artificial light harvesting systems.
The functioning of a polymer solar cell depends on the successful dissociation of sunlight-generated electron-hole pairs into charge carriers and further requires migration of these pairs in the electron-donating polymer toward a donor-acceptor interface.33,34 We here present a strategy to study hole carrier dynamics of donor-acceptor type conjugated materials containing sulfur using the model monomer compound BT-1T in the gas phase.
As a model building block for donor-acceptor type polymers, we study BT-1T.
In 1986, Tang developed an organic photovoltaic (OPV) cell in a donor/acceptor (D/A) configuration using copper phthalocyanine as donor and perylenediimide as acceptor, a power conversion efficiency of about 1% being achieved under simulated AM2 illumination [24].
In this case, the donor:acceptor (D:A) components are mixed in solution and deposited as a single film.
Usually, the active layer of a PV cell based on BHJ consists in a blend formed by a p-type organic semiconductor as electron donor and a n-type organic semiconductor as electron acceptor.
For instance, the donor materials play the main role in the light harvesting in the visible range even if the acceptor materials can also contribute to this process.
Thus, organic semiconductors characterized by a high absorptivity, a band gap value lower than 2.0 eV and by a deep HOMO energy level (lower than the threshold for air oxidation, around −5.2 eV [106]) are preferred as donors for ensuring the air stability [107].
During the last years, donor-acceptor (D-A) polymers, materials with narrow band gap obtained by alternating electron-rich units (donor) and electron-deficient units (acceptor) covalently bonded within the same chain have been developed by different research groups [114,115,116,117].
In the PV devices, metal phthalocyanines are frequently used for their light absorption with acceptor materials (e.g., C60 fullerene) or as additional p-type material for enhancing the light absorption of other p-type material (e.g., P3HT) [143].
Fullerene derivatives are widely applied as acceptors materials in the PV area, but recently other organic semiconductors featured by a high electron affinity, high charge carrier mobility, and proper miscibility with the donor material were also taken into consideration [148].
[6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM, also known as PC60BM, PC61BM) is often used as acceptor material in the fabrication of the solar cell structures due to its high electron mobility, high electron affinity, and good solubility in various organic solvents [150].
In addition, PCBM derivatives compounds recently prepared are promising new acceptors being characterized by absorption in the visible spectral domain and appropriate LUMO energy level [87,150].
The non-fullerene acceptor materials are an attractive alternative for replacing fullerene derivatives (even for the flexible electronics) since properties such as absorption, energy levels and device stability can be enhanced, modified or tuned by molecular design [119,153].
Among these compounds, 3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d’]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’]dithiophene (ITIC) exhibits strong and broad absorption, suitable energy levels, high electron mobility and a good miscibility with various donor polymers [154].
ZnO and TiO2 are used as acceptors in combination with polymer donors in the PV devices due to their high electron mobility and high transparency [35,94] while CuO is suitable for integration in the solar cells because it assures a better light harvesting.
Furthermore, semiconductor nanocrystals can be regarded as promising substitutes for the fullerene acceptors due to their features, such as (i) tuning of the band gap and energy level by the quantum confinement effect (linked to the colloid properties); (ii) strong and broad absorption at energies higher than the band edge; (iii) high dielectric constant useful for overcoming the strong exciton binding energy of the conjugated polymers and (iv) electron mobility higher compared to the organic materials.
CdSe is characterized by a band gap of ~1.74 eV [167], its colloidal nanostructures (relatively easily synthesized) being especially used in combination with thiophene-based polymers (e.g., P3HT [50]) in the PV cells taking into account that CdSe is an electron acceptor which presents an absorption in the visible part of the spectrum.
Although, the morphological investigations showed that the ZnO nanostructures are much better dispersed in P3HT-E than in P3HT, the presence of this derivative compound featured by a low degree of crystallinity seems to reduce the connectivity between the semiconductor nanoparticles that finally results in a decrease of the hole mobility compared to the blend containing P3HT as donor component, the best cell performance (1.7%) being recorded for the structure based on this conjugated polymer and ZnO.
Li (2020) studied a composite based on ZnO and 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-7,7,8,8-tetracyanoquinodimethane (F4-TCNQ) that was integrated as a cathode buffer layer (CBL) in two device architectures involving fullerene (PC71BM) or non-fullerene (ITIC) compounds as acceptors [96].
Ikram (2015) also added ZnO nanoparticles as an additional acceptor material within the P3HT:CuO:PCBM blend (0.5:0.5:0.5:0.5) [182].
Brandenburg (2011) studied the effect of the CdSe QDs particle size (2–3 nm, 3–4 nm and 10 nm) on the properties of the PV structures involving the same conjugated polymer (P3HT) as donor component [194].
Qian (2011) also investigated the influence of the CdSe nanocrystals size (5 nm and 6.5 nm) added into the blend layer and the addition of a ZnO nanoparticles (3–4 nm in size) buffer layer on the properties of the PV structures fabricated with P3HT as donor material [195].
The study evidenced that an increase in the device performance (1.9% cell efficiency) is attained by exchanging the large and insulating stearate alkylphosphonates ligand, from the surface of the CdSe nanocrystals, with the small, strongly binding and electron donating tert-butylthiol ligand, their presence resulting in a better charge transfer between the donor and acceptor components and charge collection from the semiconductor nanocrystals phase.
A 1.7% cell efficiency was reached for the structure involving P3HT nanowires as the electron donor and CdSe nanotetrapods as the electron acceptor, meaning an enhancement of ~42% in respect to the efficiency recorded for the traditional cell using dissolved P3HT molecules.
Forster resonance energy transfer from CdSe QDs to the donor also plays an important role in the device performance.
The best cell efficiency (4.32%) was recorded for the structure based on an active layer with 1:24 donor-acceptor ratio, thermally treated at 265 °C.
The improvement in the cell efficiency was linked to the presence of the inorganic nanostructures: Spherical nanoparticles can lead to an increase of the interface area between the donor and acceptor that facilitates the charge separation while the nanorods, due to their aspect ratio, can give a continuous pathway for the charge transport process.
Lu (2016) prepared iodine-passivated PbS nanocrystals (3.2 nm in size), these inorganic nanostructures and Si-PCPDTBT (a donor polymer) being further used in the development of the infrared solar cells structures [125].
The best cell efficiency (4.8%) reported for the structure using the composite film based on PbI2-exchanged PbS as acceptor was related to a more efficient charge transfer process in comparison with that involved in the structure using NH4I-exhanged PbS.
The best cell efficiency (0.45%) reached for the structure containing an optimized P3HT:FeS2 QDs ratio (1:2) was linked to the electron acceptor role played by FeS2 QDs which leads to an improvement of the charge collection at the electrodes.
A ligand exchange process was applied for replacing the insulating TOPO from the CdSe nanoparticles with pyridine in order to improve the charge transfer between the polymer (electron donor) and CdSe nanoparticles (electron acceptor).
Thus, the UV-VIS spectra of the hybrid films evidence the absorptions bands characteristic to the donor material, the B-Soret band and the Q band with two minima [135].
Based on the information presented above, the following aspects must be taken into consideration for enhancing the device performance: (i) The addition of an optimum amount of inorganic nanostructures in the active layer for enhancing the light absorption (probably the most used approach for improving the cell efficiency), a small quantity of inorganic compound being insufficient to provide a large interface for the exciton dissociation while a high quantity of inorganic nanoparticles can lead to an agglomeration process which influences the charge carrier transport; (ii) the involvement of low band gap polymers, such as PTB7 or its derivative PTB7-Th, paired with metal oxides (TiOx [91], ZnO [96], Cr2O3 [189]), chalcogenides (CdSe [211], CdS [121], InP-ZnS [224], Cu2S [225]) or silicon [231]; (iii) the use, in the CBL layer, of PEG (polymer with lone electron pairs of oxygen in its backbone) or F4-TCNQ (a compound with cyano groups) for filling the metal oxide defects (ZnO [96,176], TiOx [91]), avoiding the trap-assisted recombination loss and allowing an efficient charge transport; (iv) applying a proper annealing treatment for improving the crystallinity of the organic polymers, like P3HT [214] or MEHPPV [133], used paired with CdTe; (v) the use of an appropriate ratio between the organic and inorganic components and a suitable solvent for both components for improving their compatibility and obtaining a homogeneous dispersion of the acceptor material in the mixture blend in order to generate an optimal nano-phase separation of the components inside the active film and to assure percolation pathways for the charge carriers through the electrodes (MEHPPV:CdTe [133]); (vi) the addition of non-fullerene acceptor materials featured by a strong absorption and high electron mobility, like ITIC, in blends based on conjugated polymers, such as PTBT-Th [96] or PBDB-T [226], for facilitating the intramolecular charge transfer and to improve the light absorption by broadening the absorption spectrum; (vii) the use of small molecules, such as IEICO, characterized by complementary absorption to inorganic nanocrystals, like PbS QDs [220], which can act as a bridge between the components facilitating the energy transfer of excitons in cascade and improving the charge dissociation at interface; (viii) the replacement, by a ligand exchange process, of the insulating ligands from the surface of the inorganic colloidal nanostructures (originating from their synthesis) with smaller molecules (examples: thiols or uree for CdSe QDs [202,204]), iodine for PbS [125], pyridine, amines, etc.)
Thus, at the nanoscale level, in the donor-acceptor layer, a good control for preventing the exciton recombination and optimizing the alignment of the energy levels at the organic:inorganic interface is required.
Alterations in optical properties, evaluated from the absorption and luminescence process, are coherent with the solar spectrum, and a good distribution of donor/acceptor interpenetration was observed.
This donor–acceptor charge transfer is more elucidated by contour plots of molecular orbitals (MOs), shown in Figure 15(1) [125].
HOMO and LUMO state densities are, respectively, localized on donor and acceptor moieties [126].
From the individual theoretical electronic structures (donor and acceptor), PCE can be evaluated using the Scharber diagram.
Otherwise, the VOC can be calculated according to Equation (1) based on the HOMO and LUMO energy levels of, respectively, donor and acceptor materials [128,129,130,131]:(1)VOC(V)=1e|E(HOMO)donor(eV)|−|E(LUMO)acceptor(eV)|−0.3 (V)
Moreover, donor–acceptor charge transfer creates a localized state within the band gap, with an onset energy of 1.62 eV.
Fused heterocyclic systems containing many nitrogen and chalcogen (mainly sulfur) atoms, which have pronounced acceptor properties, in the rings attracted particular interest in recent years [6].
Electron-accepting moieties are widely represented in π-conjugated organic molecules in various combinations with electron donors and π-conjugated bridges.
Hybridization of the energy levels between the donor and acceptor parts in molecules can decrease the difference between EHOMO and ELUMO (the energy band gap, Egap), thus improving the optoelectronic properties of the molecule [8].
The important feature of the acceptor fragment is the electron affinity (EA) that is related to the energies of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (ELUMO).
A variety of heterocyclic acceptors are well known and intensely studied [9,10,11].
Heterocycles with a high electron affinity as electron-acceptor blocks have received a lot of attention [12].
In series 1–3, the Br substituent exhibits electron acceptor properties and significantly increases the EA values of each Br substituent by ~0.2 eV.
Here we demonstrate the use of quaternary BHJs (q-BHJs) composed of two conjugated polymer donors and two fullerene acceptors as a novel platform to produce high-efficiency and long-term durable OPVs.
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic photovoltaics (OPVs) composed of a conjugated polymer donor (D) and a fullerene derivative acceptor (A) have attracted considerable attention in both fundamental and practical areas.
Recently, including an additional conjugated polymer donor (or fullerene acceptor) in the binary blends to create ternary OPVs1 has been advanced as a facile way to broaden the light absorption band, improve the nanomorphology, increase the open-circuit voltage (VOC), and boost the charge (or energy) transfer of the OPVs234567.
To extend the lifetime of OPVs, therefore, it is desirable to design an active layer with incorporated additives that effectively alter the thermodynamics of phase separation between the donors and acceptors to slow down the rate of the phase separation14.
The q-BHJ-based OPV with optimized compositions of the donors, PTB7 and poly[N-9′-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT), and the acceptors, PC71BM and PC61BM, displays enhanced light absorption, an increased exciton dissociation rate, and facilitated charge transport.
For the active layer, two conjugated polymer donors and two fullerene derivative acceptors (molecular structures in Fig.
The optical response was even further enhanced in the ultraviolet range below 380 nm when the second acceptor PC61BM was added, ultimately forming the quaternary blend.
To find the optimized composition of the q-OPVs, we began with the best binary D–A ratio of 1:1.5 by weight2025 and varied the ratio of donors in the mixture such that PTB7:PCDTBT:PC71BM=1−x:x:1.5, where 0≤x≤1.
It was more practical to find the optimized composition by varying the relative amounts of the two donors while keeping the amount of the acceptor fixed because this strategy yielded more possibilities for designing the optical and morphological properties of the active layer than did an alternative strategy involving varying the amounts of the acceptors26.
Having optimized the composition of the donors, we set out to further improve performance by introducing PC61BM as an additional acceptor and to produce quaternary D–A BHJs.
It can be conjectured that the additional D and A would interfere with the formation of either crystalline grains of donor polymers or aggregated domains of acceptor fullerenes.
We varied the ratio of the acceptors in the mixture while fixing the overall donor-to-acceptor ratio such that PTB7:PCDTBT:PC71BM:PC61BM=0.9:0.1:1.5−y:y, where 0≤y≤1.5.
Considering that IQE is associated with the internal carrier transport process, which is strongly governed by nanomorphology, the q-OPV was apparently superior in suppressing the undesirable nanoscale crystallization and aggregation of the donor polymers fullerenes, respectively, in the early stages of the photovoltaic operation.
Considering that the mobilities increased proportionally to the crystal domain size of donors and acceptors41, this result clearly indicated a substantial inhibition of nanocrystallite growth in the quaternary device.
In summary, we developed a novel q-BHJ, which consists of two donors and two acceptors, for photovoltaic applications and that display both high efficiency and long-term stability.
Over the last few years, a large library of new materials have been synthesized, often based on donor-acceptor copolymers, many with charge-carrier mobilities exceeding 1 cm2V−1s−1; for instance, a mobility μFET = 5.5 cm2V−1s−1 was obtained for single conjugated fibers [4].
Similar structure/optoelectronic property relationships in terms of absorption and PL were also probed using P3HT [96–99], water soluble P3HT [100], other thiophene based block copolymers [101], co-oligomers [102], or even systems like donor-acceptor semicrystalline polymers [103], and alternating co-polymers with fluorine and thiophene moieties [104].
Since the first bulk heterojunction (a mixed donor-acceptor active layer that relies on random phase separation of the constituents and usually exhibits significant structural disorder; BHJ), based on MEH-PPV, was reported [9], the development has been rapid and device efficiencies reach now up to 10% [113–115] with fundamental theoretical descriptions suggesting an upper limit of 20%–24% [114].
Independent of the approach selected, it has become rapidly evident that donor-acceptor BHJ devices rely on various internal processes.
Due to the rather short exciton diffusion distances in organic materials (around 10 nm [79,135]), it has been proposed that exciton generation has to occur within ~10 nm of a donor–acceptor (D–A) interface; this includes molecular interfaces between molecules (e.g., in an intermixed phase or co-crystal) or, on longer length scales, between domain boundaries of phase-pure domains of the two components.
Due to this requirement of close proximity of the donor/acceptor interfaces, an architecture, as depicted in Figure 6a, has been suggested to be an optimum BHJ structure [47,138,139].
It consists of 10 nm wide, alternating domains of, donors and acceptors, orthogonally oriented with respect to the substrate.
Recently, however, evidence was collected that intermixed phases are formed by the donor and acceptor.
Thus, it seems increasingly clear that a functional model, based upon charge generation in a finely intermixed polymer/fullerene phase, followed by spatial separation of electrons and holes at the interface of this mixed phase with crystalline fullerene domains (Figure 6b), might be relevant for efficient photovoltaic performance of organic donor/acceptor systems [141,142].
[122] showed that the regioregularity of the donor polymer is critical for the performance of the resulting devices due to its influence on the molecular organization of P3HT chains that leads to better ordered architectures of improved transport properties.
Hence, many important issues related to the various internal processes (including the charge separation at the donor-acceptor interface) have not been discussed here.
Here, the reader can further understand both from theoretical and experimental point of view what the role of molecular architecture is and how the intermolecular interaction between the donor and acceptor components is influencing the charge separation and charge transport processes taking place in the OPVs.
The solar cells are depending on exchanging of electron between donor and acceptor.
The requirements of compound to be acceptors are that they have the affinity towards electron and can easily transport charge.
The morphology of fullerenes in terms of size (donor and acceptor phase) for bending physically is not easy to control with ordering that can significantly increase the cost of the process.
These include the improvement of electron capturing ability, generation of charge, diffusion and collection of electrodes and charge transport between donor and acceptor electron.
It has the highest energy occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO, electron donor), lowest energy occupied molecular orbitals (LUMO, electron acceptor) and energy difference of valence band with conduction band (energy gap) with low cost method [28,29,30,31,32] gave opportunity to apply the method for the future.
So easily formed exaction reach to the interface with electron acceptor during charge transfer.
The non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) are moderately weaker to gain electron compare to fullerene but it has better blend morphology and efficient capability to transfer charge without back transfer with respect to donor material.
The NFAs material frontier energy levels are favorable to the donor material due to its optical absorptivity and structural flexibility.
The most commonly used NFAs are ITIC, ITIC-Th, SdiPBI-S, IT-4F, IDIC, ITM, IT-DM, ITCPTC, IDTCN, IOIC2 and donor PBDBT, PBDBTSF, FTAZ (Figure 3) [85,86,87,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,97,98,99,100,101,102,103,104].
Other examples are organic solar cells [118,119], composed of an active layer made of a donor and acceptor [109], which can be layered to make a “heterojunction” [120,121].
This type of structure has a low-efficiency, due to the generation of low-charge lately this has been improved to an efficiency of 5.9% [132].Bilayer or multilayer structures: are organics layers overlapping [31] first the donor type “p” and then the acceptor type “n”, by this process, are created excitons which are the a electron state, where it gets excited out of its valence band to the conduction band.
These excitons increase the energy generation by displacing from donor to acceptor.
In recent years, different materials have been studied for donor and acceptor [133,134].Bulk heterojunction structures [135,136]: have a mix of donor and acceptor in the bulk, which improves the interfacial area preventing exciton diffusion [137].
Bilayer or multilayer structures: are organics layers overlapping [31] first the donor type “p” and then the acceptor type “n”, by this process, are created excitons which are the a electron state, where it gets excited out of its valence band to the conduction band.
These excitons increase the energy generation by displacing from donor to acceptor.
In recent years, different materials have been studied for donor and acceptor [133,134].
Bulk heterojunction structures [135,136]: have a mix of donor and acceptor in the bulk, which improves the interfacial area preventing exciton diffusion [137].
In recent years, a great interest in the use of low band-gap polymers as donors to realize high-efficiency polymer solar cells has emerged.
This can be classified according to Figure 8:(a)Bilayer heterojunction (Planar heterojunction): Made of two layers, donor and acceptor between two electrodes [179].
(b)Bulk heterojunction (Dispersed heterojunction): Composed of a blend between donor and acceptor, provides an easier exciton diffusion and dissociation [203].
This can be classified according to Figure 8:(a)Bilayer heterojunction (Planar heterojunction): Made of two layers, donor and acceptor between two electrodes [179].
(b)Bulk heterojunction (Dispersed heterojunction): Composed of a blend between donor and acceptor, provides an easier exciton diffusion and dissociation [203].
Bilayer heterojunction (Planar heterojunction): Made of two layers, donor and acceptor between two electrodes [179].
Bulk heterojunction (Dispersed heterojunction): Composed of a blend between donor and acceptor, provides an easier exciton diffusion and dissociation [203].
Exciton diffuse in the donor-accepter interface (D-A) [207].
In the donor layer the Poisson’s equation can be solved for the conservation of holes and excitons, as [107]:∇·Jh(d)=0∇·Jex(d)=Gex−nexTex−∇2ψ(d)=eε0εδnh
In the acceptor layer the Poisson equation is solved for the conservation of electrons, as [107]:∇·Je(a)=0−∇2ψ(a)=−eε0εαne
In the blend layer where the acceptor and donor come in contact, the Poisson’s equation can be solved as [107]:∇·Je(b)=S∇·Jh(b)=S−∇2ψ(b)=eε0εα(nh−ne) with:Jh(d) and Jex(d): Hole and excitons fluxes in the donor layer.Je(b) and Jh(b): Electron and hole fluxes in the blend layer.Je(a): Electron in the acceptor layer.Gex: Exciton generation rate in the donor layer.ne, nex and nh: respectively, concentration of electrons, excitons, and holes.Tex: Exciton lifetime.ψ(a), ψ(b) and ψ(d): respectively, electrical potential in the acceptor, blend, and donor layer.e: elemental charge.ε0: Permitivity of the free space.εα and εδ: respectively, permittivity of the acceptor and donor.ε: Dielectric constant of the blend layer.
Jh(d) and Jex(d): Hole and excitons fluxes in the donor layer.
Je(a): Electron in the acceptor layer.
Gex: Exciton generation rate in the donor layer.
ψ(a), ψ(b) and ψ(d): respectively, electrical potential in the acceptor, blend, and donor layer.
εα and εδ: respectively, permittivity of the acceptor and donor.
Starting by boundary 1 between acceptor and current collector, the potential has no losses and the Boltzmann statistics delivers the concentration of electrons and holes.
In the boundary 2 between blend and acceptor the holes are assumed to stay stuck in the blend, also the electrical potential and electron flux are assumed continuous.
In the boundary 3 between blend and donor excitons dissociate, increasing the flux of electrons and holes.
In the boundary 4 between donor and solar cell surface/current collector the potential and charge concentration is:ψ=Ua−Ub, ne=Ncvexp(−e UbkBT),nex=0,nh=Ncv where U: Applied voltage.
With this set of equations the bulk heterojunction can be mathematically modeled, by eliminating the donor and acceptor of the active layers [107].
used small donor–acceptor-type coadsorbents, which absorb blue light and prevent aggregation of the ruthenium black dye, and achieved a certified record for DSCs (11.4%).21 Similarly, Song et al.
ABSTRACTThe efficiency of ternary organic solar cells relies on the spontaneous establishment of a nanostructured network of donor and acceptor phases during film formation.
The most frequently used device film morphology for OSCs is the bulk heterojunction (BHJ), consisting of donor- and acceptor rich phases separated on the nanoscale.
However, the most commonly used conjugated polymers have limited absorption bandwidths and the fullerene derivatives, frequently used as electron acceptors, show weak absorption in the visible.
The third component polymers or small molecules can be used either as donor or acceptor [8–14].
Following the recent literature, the most efficient ternary solar cells today are based on non-fullerene acceptors, with reported efficiencies exceeding 13%.
The working principle here is based on two compatible acceptors [23], two compatible donors [24], or cascading energy levels [25].
In the binary blend, charge transport occurs through interconnected channels of the acceptor and donor phase.
Rather a parallel-linkage model applies, where PC70BM acts as acceptor for either PBDTTT-C or Cy7T.
The EQE spectrum of the reference device showed a combined photoresponse of both the donor PBDTTT-C and the acceptor PC70BM, in accordance with the energy levels in Figure 1(c) and consistent with a BHJ morphology, enabling oxidative and reductive photocurrent generation (Figure 2(b)).
The importance of intermixed phases for photovoltaics has been discussed before for PC61BM, which showed considerable miscibility with donor polymers [70].
These reactions are often catalyzed by visible-light absorbing organic molecules or transition-metal complexes of ruthenium, iridium, chromium, or copper.5,6 While a wide variety of closed shell organic molecules have been shown to behave as competent electron transfer catalysts in photoredox reactions, there are only limited reports of PET reactions involving neutral organic radicals as an excited state donor or acceptor.
SRSH-PCM was benchmarked well in calculating CT state energies of solvated donor-acceptor complex and in analyzing the spectral trends of several pigments with increased accuracy where conventional TD-DFT calculations fail to reproduce the observed trends (see SI for full computational details).24–27
In addition to OFET and TE applications, n-type OSCs have also attracted considerable interest as alternative acceptors for non-fullerene solar cells [7] and electron-transporting materials for p-i-n perovskite.
For both types of solar cells, fullerenes and their derivatives have been broadly applied as an acceptor for OPV.
To address those limitations, OSCs have been extended to non-fullerene acceptor materials.
Dicyanomethylene block is one of the moieties extensively involved in the construction of superior electron acceptor dyes.
A large number of review articles dedicated to TCNQ and its acceptor analogues are recommended from the point of view of design and synthesis [17], molecular architecture for optoelectronic applications [18], and optoelectronic devices.
The LUMO level was further reduced to −4.18 eV by introducing 2,2′-bithiazole (BTz) into the D–A polymer system (P3), which serves as the electron donor [47].
Bromine functionalized isatin derivatives can be further used to design more sophisticated macromolecular architectures, and three different donors were introduced into the synthesis of three polymers, P4–P6 (Figure 15).
On the one hand, they show a variation in HOMO from −6.00 to −5.91 eV because of the different donor abilities of donor-acceptor (Table 2).
Materials with fused forms and with strong EWGs are promising acceptor materials for organic photovoltaics.
Indacenodithiophene-based small molecular acceptor (ITIC) is an archetype n-type OSC and possesses a broad and strong absorption spectrum.
This non-fullerene acceptor has been used in device reaching up to 12% in PCE [7].
OSCs hold remarkable potential for low-cost, flexible PVs, presenting both compatibility with R2R large-area fabrication443–445 and impressive short-energy pay-back times.446 Bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) OSCs, exploiting blends of p-type polymer (or organic small-molecule) donor/n-type fullerene (or other kind of organic small-molecule) acceptor materials dissolved in a common solvent, have opened an avenue for promising research activity to improve the η value of SCs,447 as well as the overall performance of photoelectrochemical cells.448–455 The BHJ configuration maximizes the donor/acceptor interfacial area, facilitating exciton dissociation and charge transfer by forming a bicontinuous interpenetrated charge transport network in the photoactive layer.456,457 In addition, the incorporation of layers with hole and electron transporting (or blocking) properties between the donor/acceptor active layer and anode/cathode promotes and balances the extraction/collection of photogenerated charges.458 All these properties make the BHJ concept a landmark in OSC development, as well as a plethora of other applications (e.g., photodetectors459 and biosensing devices460–462).
Historically, the development of low-bandgap polymers, interfacial engineering, and fabrication techniques allowed BHJ to achieve η exceeding 9% for single-junction cells463–467 and 10% for tandem cells.468 More recently, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have dominated the OSC field due to significant performance and stability improvements.469 Compared with their fullerene-based counterparts, NFAs exhibit tunable bandgaps that extend their light absorption in the NIR region.468 In addition, their tunable energy levels can adjust the energy-level alignments between the constituent layers in OSCs to minimize the energy offsets, increasing the VOC.468 Lastly, their crystallinity can be easily tuned to finely control the photoactive-layer morphology, improving the device stability.470–472 Nowadays, state-of-the-art OSCs exhibit η values over 17% for both single-junction cells and two-terminal tandem cells, mainly due to the rapid developments of NFAs, as well as advanced device engineering.473–477 In particular, the combination of low-bandgap donors and NFA-enabled OSCs has resulted in the achievement of record efficiency of 18.3%.478
7) such as (a) transparent front electrode (i.e., TCE)479–481 or back electrode;482–484 (b) electron acceptors in binary OSCs or additives in ternary OSCs in the form of nanoflakes dispersed in donor–acceptor matrices;336,485–487 (c) ϕW-tuned HTLs/ETLs488–490 or interfacial layers in tandem OSCs.491–493 In the following subsections, the application of solution-processed GRMs into OSC structures will be examined for each functional device component.
Graphene-based molecules, WSe2, and MoSe2 have been used as electron acceptors in binary blends or additives in ternary OSCs.
Electron acceptors
The photoactive layer of an OSC typically comprises a bicontinuous interpenetrating network of electron donor and acceptor materials at the nanometer scale, which is referred to as the BHJ.535–538 Traditionally, electron donors are mainly based on conjugated polymers,539–541 while typical electron acceptors are fullerene derivatives.534–537,542 Although fullerenes exhibit high electron μ (μe) and high exciton diffusion length,543 their low light absorption within the solar spectrum restricts the maximum attainable VOC in OSCs.544–548 Therefore, alternative acceptors based on both graphene derivatives549–552 and small molecules553–559 have been successfully proposed to provide an “on-demand” tuning of the LUMO level.
Among the 2D materials, functionalized GO and graphene QDs (GQDs) have been largely investigated as solution-processed electron acceptors in OSCs.560–562 Liu et al.563 functionalized GO with phenyl isocyanate to be used as an electron acceptor in OSCs.
The resulting OSCs based on poly(3-octylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3OT) as the polymer donor exhibited an η value of 1.4%.562 Functionalized GO was also blended with P3HT, achieving an η value of ∼1.1%.548 When P3HT was blended with GQDs functionalized with aniline (ANIGQDs), the resulting OSCs reached an η value of ∼1.14%.564
Thus, they obtained a GO:C60 hybrid that was used as an electron acceptor in P3HT-based OSCs, providing an η value of 1.22% (2.5 times higher than the η value measured for GO-free device (η = 0.47%)).
The resulting GO-EDNB was used as an electron acceptor material in P3HT-based OSCs, which achieved an η value of 0.96%.565 However, it is noteworthy that the LUMO level of GO-EDNB was 3.4 eV, which means that it is able to provide an energetic offset for exciton dissociation only with P3HT (LUMOP3HT = 3 eV).565 This condition, which is not met by the state-of-the-art polymer donors, prevents the use of GO-EDNB as a universal electron acceptor.565 These results evinced the need of exploring alternative functionalization routes for graphene derivatives to improve the distribution of flakes in the polymer matrix, while tuning their electronic structure (i.e., achieving an ideal energy offset between the LUMO levels of the polymers and graphene derivatives).
Based on this consideration, a photochemical functionalization of GO through laser-induced covalent grafting of GO nanosheets with EDNB molecules (LGO-EDNB) was subsequently demonstrated to tune the GO energy levels.567 The as-produced LGO-EDNB has shown excellent processability in organic solvents commonly used for prototypical polymer donors.566 The HOMO/LUMO levels of LGO-EDNB were tuned by adjusting the laser irradiation parameters.566 The optimized LGO-EDNB displayed an Eg value of 1.7 eV and LUMO level of 4.1 eV.
Thus, it was used as an electron acceptor in PCDTBT-based OSCs, achieving a VOC value of 1.17 V and an η value of 2.41%.566
According to the authors, the RGO behaves as an energy-matched auxiliary electron acceptor in the hybrid structure, connecting the electron transport pathways provided by the 3D ZnO network and TiO2 NR array to the fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) substrate.567 In addition, it was concluded that the incorporation of RGO with low C-to-O atomic ratio stabilizes the active layer infiltrated in the interstices of the TiO2 NR array.567
Beyond more conventional 2D materials, 2D-conjugated polymers have been commonly proposed as potential donor materials for high-performance OSCs.
In particular, the absorption spectral window of the polymer donor can be extended and the exciton dissociation and charge transport can be enhanced owing to the introduction of additional interfaces, and the morphological properties of the photoactive layer can also be tuned for favorable cell operation.
In this regard, indene–C60 bisadduct (ICBA), whose energy levels lie between the polymer donor and fullerene acceptor, has been successfully used as the third component in ternary blends.571 As an alternative to ICBA, solution-processed graphene derivatives can be ideal additives in ternary OSCs, since a remarkable μ value in the device is expected to be achieved via graphene addition.
Graphene nanoflakes with controlled lateral size and functionalized with EDNB (EDNB-GNFs) were demonstrated as a ternary compound acting as an efficient electron-cascade acceptor material in air-processed PCDTBT:PC71BM-based OSCs.484 The functionalization process allowed the HOMO and LUMO levels of GNFs to be matched with the HOMO and LUMO levels of the hosting polymer and fullerene components, respectively.
Furthermore, EDNB-GNFs acted as a highly conductive bridge between polymer chains and fullerene balls, thus offering two additional interfaces for exciton dissociation, as well as multiple routes for charge transfer at the donor/acceptor interfaces.
The same group investigated the role of GO covalently linked with porphyrin moieties (GO-TPP) into the active layer of PCDTBT:PC71BM and PTB7:PC71BM,575 showing that the addition of GO-TPP induces favorable energy alignment between the energy levels of the donor and acceptor, facilitating the electron-cascade effect.
Three WSe2 samples, with different average lateral sizes (below 20 nm, between 30 and 50 nm, and above 50 nm) were investigated.336 Upon the introduction of medium-sized flakes, an η value of 9.45% was measured, which is one of highest reported for OSCs based on PTB7 as the polymer donor.336 The observed enhancement was attributed to the synergistic effect of absorption and charge transfer processes.336 Notably, only medium-sized WSe2 flakes contributed to η enhancement.336 This was linked with the similar size of WSe2 flakes and PC71BM domains in the ternary blend.336 Therefore, the insertion of such nanoflakes introduces additional percolation pathways in the photoactive blend, promoting electron extraction and therefore collection.336 These results highlighted the importance to match the morphological properties of 2D materials with the photoactive components of OSC blends.336 Lately, Yang et al.
To design high-efficiency OSCs, ETL/HTL are positioned between the photoactive layer and anode/cathode, to reduce the potential barriers at both the interfaces and suppress the current leakage and/or charge recombination.586 Preferably, to ensure ohmic contacts at both interfaces, the ϕW value of an ETL should match the LUMO level of the acceptor, while the ϕW value of the HTL should match the HOMO level of the donor.587
Furthermore, the RGO-based OSC exhibited a lifetime significantly longer than that of the PEDOT:PPS-based device.608 Similarly, Murray et al.610 photoreduced GO with UV irradiation to obtain a HTL with ϕW aligned with the HOMO level of the PTB7 donor (Fig.
Therefore, sRGO was compatible with the HOMO level of conventional donor polymers.610 Further, sRGO was successfully applied in OSCs based on P3HT, poly[1-(6-{4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]-6-methylbenzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophen-2-yl}-3-fluoro-4 methylthieno [3,4-b]thiophen-2-yl)-1-octanone] (PBDTTT-CF), and PTB7 as polymer donors.610 In particular, an η value higher than 7% was achieved for sRGO-based OSCs, which also exhibited device stability superior to that of the PEDOT:PSS-based reference.610 Liu et al.612 produced a sulfated RGO by introducing -OSO3H groups into the basal plane of GO (RGO-OSO3H).
(a) Chemical structures of the PTB7 donor polymer, PC71BM acceptor, and GO HTL.
Li et al.615 investigated deposited GQDs as the HTL material in DR3TBDT:PC71BM- and P3HT:PC61BM-based OSCs (DR3TBDT is a small-molecule donor based on the benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene unit).616 GQD films exhibited homogenous morphology and high conductivity, yielding P3HT:PC61BM-based OSCs with an η value of 3.51%.615 This value was similar to that measured for PEDOT:PSS-based OSCs (η = 3.52%).615 In addition, GQD-based OSCs exhibited longer lifetime and more reproducible η compared to the reference device.615
The ϕW value of GO was tuned by controlling the laser exposure time.618 In particular, the ϕW value of chlorinated GO (GO-Cl) was adjusted from 4.9 eV in GO to a maximum of 5.23 eV in GO-Cl by increasing the laser exposure level up to 60 laser pulses (pulse duration = 20 ns; wavelength = 248 nm; power of 50 mW; beam profile = 20 × 10 mm2).618 The induced polar character of C–Cl bonds is responsible for the downward shift in EF in the VB of GO-Cl and the subsequent increase in ϕW compared to pristine GO.618 This ϕW tuning determined the energy matching between GO-Cl and the PCDTBT donor, allowing the resulting OSC to reach an η value higher than that of PEDOT:PSS-based reference.618 Phosphorylated GO was recently used as HTL in PTB7:PC71BM-, PBDTTT-C:PC71BM-, and P3HT:PC61BM-based OSCs, enhancing their η from 6.28%, 5.07%, and 2.78% (in pristine GO-based devices) to 7.90%, 6.59%, and 3.85%, respectively.620 The proposed phosphate ester modification increased the GO film roughness and hydrophobicity, while the p-doping of the GO increased ϕW from 4.24 to 4.70 eV, providing better matching with the HOMO level of the polymer donor.619
10).634 The cells used Y6471 or IT-4F635 as small-molecule NFAs and PBDB-T-SF636 or PBDB-T-2F634 as the polymer donors.
For the use of GRMs as ETLs, proper functionalization routes have been used to decrease the ϕW values close to that of the HOMO level of fullerene acceptors, aiming to facilitate efficient electron transport from the electron acceptor to the ETL.
by anchoring PC61BM onto GO through a pyridine moiety to be used as the ETL in P3HT:PC61BM-based OSCs.648 The RGO-PC61BM nanocomposite exhibits higher solubility compared to RGO and a low ϕW value of 4.4 eV, which matched the LUMO level of the electron acceptor.647 Therefore, the modified PC61BM OSCs significantly improved the η value (3.89%) compared to OSCs using pristine RGO or pyrene-PC61BM ETLs.647
Consequently, it was possible to match the GO-Cl ϕW with the HOMO level of both PCDTBT and PTB7 donor, as well as GO-Li ϕW with the fullerene LUMO level, enabling the balance between μe and μh.650 As a result, both graphene-based OSCs significantly outperformed the reference ones, leading to η improvement of 30% and 19% for PCDTBT- and PTB7-based devices, respectively.650 In particular, the champion device exhibited an η value of 9.14%, which was a record-high value for OSCs using a graphene-based buffer layer.650 In the same context, Yu et al.
The effort for OSC commercialization has recently seen a renaissance after the development of BHJ single-junction devices based on low-bandgap polymer donors and NFAs,474–476 which reached η values exceeding 17%,474–476 up to the record value of 18.3%.477 Importantly, the LCOE for organic solar modules with an η value of 10% in a 20 year range has recently been estimated to be between 0.185 and 0.486 ¥ kW h−1 (i.e., between 2.7 and 7.3 US cent kW h−1),667 which is competitive with the LCOEs afforded by current PV technologies (less than 5 US cents kW h−1)131–133 and fossil fuels.134,135 In this context, the incorporation of solution-processed 2D materials enabled the OSCs to further increase their performance up to η values of more than 17%.584,633 In ref.
Meanwhile, solution-processed 2D materials have tunable energy levels to act as an additive in ternary blends together with NFAs and low-bandgap polymer donors.
Overall, we believe that the use of cost-effective solution-processed 2D materials as CTLs, buffer layers, and additives in OSCs, coupled with the development of low-bandgap donors and NFAs, can be the key to unlock their spread in both large-scale and niche (i.e., indoor) applications.
fabricated a multistep electron transfer system based on organic–inorganic ternary composites of Zn–porphyrin (ZnP), ZnO NPs, and RGO onto a FTO/SnO2 electrode.756 The RGO flakes randomly distributed in the composite film acting as a 2D network, which assists the electron flow from ZnO-NP/ZnP composite to the FTO/SnO2 electrode.755 This effect limited the charge recombination at the electrolyte interface and improved the photocurrent generation, resulting in an IPCE value of ∼70% over the absorbed wavelength.755 The authors assessed that RGO can act as electron acceptor from ZnO-NP/ZnP composite, as well as a medium to store and shuttle electrons within the composite film.755 Fang et al.
In particular, CE based on micrometer-thick graphene films can show RCT approaching to those of Pt-based CEs, which can even be inferior to 1 Ω cm2 for the reduction of I3−.809–811 For example, Kaniyoor and Ramaprabhu used thermally exfoliated graphene (TEGr) as a novel electrocatalyst material for I3− reduction.812 Their TEGr-based CE has shown a RCT of ∼11.7 Ω cm2 that, although higher than that of their Pt-based CE (∼6.5 Ω cm2), was lower than that reported for graphite-based CE.813 Counter electrodes based on thin-film GRMs have been demonstrated to be extremely effective for DSSCs using mediators different than traditional I−/I3−, particularly the Co(bpy)32+/3+ redox couple.697 For example, thermally reduced graphene oxide (TRGO)-based CEs allow flexible DSSCs to be realized with an η value of ∼5%, comparable to that obtained using platinized FTO (5.5%), suggesting that the functional groups and defects of graphene can play an important role in catalysis.712 More recently, a printable graphene-based ink obtained by the LPE of graphite has been spray-coated onto a TCO substrate to replace Pt in a large area (≥90 cm2) semitransparent (Tr = 44%) CE.405 A large-area DSSC module (43.2 cm2 active area) using the constructed CE achieved an η value of 3.5%, VOC of 711 mV, JSC of 14.8 mA cm−2, and FF of 34.7%.405 Yen et al.814 prepared a composite dispersion of graphene/metal NPs via the H2O/(CH2OH)2 synthesis method.815 Then, they fabricated a graphene/Pt NP-based CE on the FTO substrate.813 The Pt incorporation improved the graphene reduction degree, and the composite materials synergistically enhanced the electrocatalytic properties of the CE.813 The DSSC based on the as-produced CE afforded an η value of 6.35% (JSC of ∼12 mA cm−2, VOC of ∼0.8 V, and FF of ∼0.7), which is ∼20% higher compared to the reference DSSCs.813 Ju and co-workers developed heteroatom-doped graphene nanomaterials for DSSC CEs.801 In detail, they used N-doped GNPs, deposited onto FTO/glass substrates through electrospray coating, as the CEs in a DSSC using a Co(bpy)33+/2+ redox couple and JK225 organic dye sensitizer containing bis-dimethylfluorenyl amino group as the electron donor and cyanoacrylic acid as the electron acceptor and bridged by an indeno[1,2-b]thiophene unit.816 N-doping induced a structural deformation in the hexagonal lattice of the graphene layer of the GNPs via local strains, as well as produced additional electron/ion pair with electrocatalytic activity.817,818 Therefore, the DSSCs based on N-GNP CE reached an η value of 9.05%, which outperformed that obtained using Pt-based CE (8.43%).801 By means of N-GNP CE, the measured RCT (1.73 Ω cm2) was significantly lower than that obtained with Pt-based CE (3.15 Ω cm2).801
reported that the insertion of an ultrathin layer of GQDs between the perovskite and mTiO2 impacts the PSC performance, increasing the η value from 8.81% up to 10.15%.1101 The insertion of a GQD interlayer causes strong quenching of perovskite photoluminescence at ∼760 nm due to a reduced electron extraction time (90–106 ps) in the presence of GQDs.1101 This means that the GQDs permit an efficient electron transfer from the photo-absorber to the acceptor, resulting in efficient electron extraction.1101
21f).1134 Alternatively, GO was used as both HTL and additive in the perovskite absorber in an inverted PSC.1136 The resulting PSC exhibited an η value as high as 15%, which was attributed to the hole acceptor role of GO in the hybrid GO:perovskite composite.1135 Moreover, the use of GQDs within the perovskite layer was reported as a promising strategy to passivate perovskite grain boundaries, improving the overall device performance.1137 In fact, conductive GQDs were used to facilitate electron extraction and simultaneously passivate dangling bonds and eliminate electron traps at the perovskite grain boundaries.1136 These effects enhanced the η value up to 17.6%.1136 Alternatively, 2D BP was proposed as an additive in the absorber precursor solution to obtain large (>500 nm) perovskite grains and to improve the η value up to 20.65%.1138
Thus, when mixed with organic photoactive components, they can provide an interfacial force driving the dissociation of excitons generated in the organic materials in free charge.1387–1390 Therefore, inorganic nanocrystals can act as ideal acceptor materials in BHJ OSC-like devices using either organic polymers or conjugated small molecules as the donors.1378–1384,1391
The first hybrid SC was reported in 1996 using CdSe nanodots as the acceptor and poly[2-methoxy-5-(2′-ethylhexyloxy)-p-phenylene vinylene] (MEH-PPV) as the donor.1392 However, the corresponding η was low (<0.5%) as a consequence of the poor charge transport through the CdSe nanodots.1391 Thereafter, much effort has been devoted toward improving charge transport by tuning the nanocrystal shapes.1393–1395 Studies on QDSCs also helped to rapidly advance hybrid SCs.1396 In 2011, Ren et al.
reached an η value of 4.1% with hybrid SCs based on P3HT and CdS nanocrystals as the donor and acceptor, respectively.1397 More recently, hybrid SCs based on Si as the inorganic component have drawn relevant attention due to their room-temperature, facile, and cost-effective fabrication processes, which is promising to lower the cost of conventional Si SCs.1398–1400 Owing to advances in the synthesis of organic materials and design of novel device structures, hybrid SCs based on n-type Si substrate achieved η higher than 16%,1401,1402 (record value of 17.4%).1403 Despite the aforementioned results, the η value of hybrid SCs is still insufficient to compete with conventional inorganic Si SCs and PSCs (Section 6).
Non-fullerene acceptors
Later in 2009, by constructing porphyrin sensitizer with an arylamine as donor and a benzoic acid as acceptor, Diau and Yeh demonstrated that this donor-acceptor framwork porphyrins could attain remarkable photovoltaic performance.
Now the highest efficiencies of DSSC are dominated by donor-acceptor porphyrins, reaching remarkable values around 13.0% with cobalt-based electrolytes.
This achievement is largely contributed by the structural development of donor and acceptor groups within push-pull framwork.
In this review, we summarized and discussed the developement of donor-acceptor porphyrin sensitizers and their applications in DSSC.
(A) The efficiency progressing records of porphyrin based DSSC from the year of 1993 to 2018; (B) Some major structure development of porphyrins in DSSC; (C) Most popular porphyrin structure with donor-acceptor function groups for recent highly efficient porphyrin dye.
It remains the diphenylamine (DPA) and benzoic acid as donor and acceptor but with four octyloxy groups attached on the ortho-position of the porphyrin ring.
The record was further improved to 13.0% in 2014 with another benchmark porphyrin SM315 (Figure 3), which is similar to the structure of YD2-o-C8 but the conjugation area of donor and acceptor were both extended (Mathew et al., 2014).
In most highly efficient sensitizers, an efficient inner-charge transfer (ICT) can be attained with an electron withdrawing group (acceptor, A) as one ending side whilst one electron-donating group (donor, D) as another (Chen et al., 2018; Lu J. F. et al., 2018).
Generally, the donor and acceptor structure of sensitizer can determine two processes in a working DSSC, oxidized-dye regeneration and hot-electron injection.
The donor group is regarded as the dye-regeneration reaction site after electron injection, which should be highly compatible with the redox mediator.
In the meantime, the acceptor group plays the role in delivering the electron from the sensitizer to the semi-conductor, accomplishing the electron-hole separation process (O'Regan et al., 2012).
Taking the structure of YD2 porphyrin as an example, if considering the porphyrin macrocycle as π-bridge, one can suppose that DPA as donor group to react with I− or [Co(bpy)3]2+ while 4-ethynylbenzoic acid as acceptor group transferring the electron to semi-conductor.
Diau and Lin also suggested that one can envisage porphyrin as a part of electron donor and carboxyl acid as electron acceptor, then the conjugation units between the donor and acceptor as π-bridge.
To clarify the trait of the molecular design ideas, in following sections, we denoted those functional groups at meso-positions, 20-position (in Figure 2) as electron-donor, the para meso-position (10- position in Figure 2) as acceptor.
We focused the discussion on the influence of donor and acceptor structure to the whole molecule's spectral and photovoltaic properties and tried to give strategies for controlling those properties by a rational tailoring of the structure.
In Figure 4, we summarized some typical donor groups reported in last few years.
Hereafter we illustrate several typical donor groups to scrutinize the route for designing highly efficient porphyrin sensitizers.
A summary of some donor groups in D-A porphyrins.
To clarify the function of the diarylamino in porphyrin sensitizer, we can take a close look at YD0 and YD1 porphyrins, which have similar molecular structure except that YD1 contains a DPA donor group while YD does not (Figure 5) (Lu et al., 2009).
Structure of porphyrins bearing with diphenylamine as donor group.
LD14 porphyrin (Figure S1) features with 4-ethynyl-N,N-dimethylaniline as donor group while the acceptor is similar to YD2 (Chou et al., 2016).
As proposed in D-A metal-free organic dyes, the function of donor is pushing the electron to the acceptor group, finally to the semi-conductor.
In most highly efficient dyes, electron-density of the HOMO is mainly distributed at the donor site as from the DFT calculations.
These results have provided us a glimpse of the relationship between the donor structure and the energy levels of the porphyrin molecule, and finally the relation to the DSSC photovoltaic properties.
The significant performance difference between LD4 and LWP4 based DSSC suggested that there should be a certain length of the donor group.
For example, Kim and co-workers reported a series of porphyrin sensitizers employed bulky alkoxy group substituted fluorene derivatives as electron donor moieties (Kang et al., 2012, 2013).
reported a series of push-pull porphyrin dyes featuring with different numbers of di-fluorene-amine at the donor moiety (Li et al., 2014a,b,c).
With a C-N linkage of bis(4-hexylphenyl)amine to 9,9-dihexyl-9H-fluorene to construct the donor group, the ZZX-N4 exhibited better DSSC performance than the other analogs.
They found that extension of π-conjugation area of donor group can hardly achieve a positive effect on the absorption spectra, as well as the IPCE of the DSSC devices.
Other donor groups
It's indeed useful in designing useful porphyrins for DSSC, such as YD2 (bis(4-hexylphenyl)amine), YD2-o-C8 (bis(4-hexylphenyl)amine), ZnPBAT (di-p-tolylamine), GY50 (bis(4-hexylphenyl)amine) (Yella et al., 2014), SM315 (bulky bis(2′,4′-bis(hexyloxy)-[1′-biphenyl]-4-yl)amine donor) etc.
Some concepts from low-band-gap polymer were successfully applied in adjusting the absorption area and energy alignment of the porphyrins, such as weak donor-strong acceptor (Zhou et al., 2012; Bai et al., 2018; Lin et al., 2018; Xie et al., 2018), which will be discussed in the following part.
The acceptor groups
The acceptor structure in a push-pull porphyrin determines not only the charge injection, separation and transfer processes, but also the adsorption geometry of dye on TiO2 (Imahori et al., 2010; Ye et al., 2013; Hayashi et al., 2015).
As we summarized in Figure 6, an acceptor group usually constructs with a triple bond, which is used to connect to the porphyrin; an aromatic linker group, which is to transfer the electron to the anchor; and carboxyl acid, which grafts to the semi-conductor.
For example, in acceptor 1 in Figure 6, we can regard the phenyl unit as linker.
A summary of some acceptor groups in D-A porphyrin sensitizers.
As pioneered by Diau and Yeh in 2009, 4-ethynylbenzoic acid (1 in Figure 6) was demonstrated to be one of the most successful and popular acceptors.
Series of highly efficient porphyrins sensitizers were constructed with this rigid acceptor, including the benchmark porphyrins, i.e., LD14, YD2-o-C8.
Since this unique acceptor was created several years ago and has already been deeply investigated, we will majorly focus on the alternatives in the later discussion.
Secondary chromophores conjugated acceptor
Insertion of secondary chromophores into the donor framework was reported to be efficient in broadening the IPCE while maintain the VOC.
Following this idea, Lin and Diau systematically tuned the absorption spectra by inserting acenes into the acceptor (Figure 6) (Lin et al., 2009).
Electron-withdrawing group in acceptor
Ideally, enhance the donor's electron-donating ability and/or the acceptor's electron-withdrawing ability is beneficial to the ICT of the sensitizer, thus increases the injection efficiency and reduce the charge recombination (Wang et al., 2018).
Yeh and Diau used the acrylonitrile group to build the acceptor (Lee et al., 2009).
ZnPF featured with 4 fluorine atoms substituted on the phenyl linker, supposed to enhance the electron-withdrawing ability of the acceptor.
Thiophene and derivatives conjugated acceptor
In 2013, an efficient LW4 porphyrin employed 5-ethynylthiophene-2-carboxylic acid as acceptor was reported by Wang et al.
They all have similar donor, porphyrin core and anchoring group structure, while only differentiate the linker group with phenyl, thiophene, and elongated 2-phenylthiophene.
When investigate how the linkers influence a porphyrin's spectral and photovoltaic properties, one can make the porphyrins bearing with exactly a same donor, porphyrin ring, and anchor, but only varied the linker group, such as benzene (LW1), thiophene (LW2), 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene (EDOT, LW3), 2-phenylthiophene (LW6), 1,1′-biphenyl (LW7), 2,2′-bithiophene (LW8), and cyclopenta-[1,2-b:5,4-b′]dithiophene (CPDT, LW9) (Figure 8) (Lu et al., 2013a, 2014b,c).
After the first report by Wang etc., a variety of thiophene conjugated rigid acceptors have been created (Sreenivasu et al., 2014; Zhang M.-D. et al., 2014).
Interesting to note that furan and bithiophene linked acceptor functionated porphyrins exhibit broader absorption area than that of thiophene but dramatically dropped performance (2.8 and 1.4%).
reported a porphyrin (ZnP-2 in Figure S7) featured with 4-((5-ethynylthiophen-2-yl)ethynyl)benzoic acid acceptor, in which a triple bond was inserted between the thiophene and phenyl (Chae et al., 2014).
Electron-deficient unit conjugated acceptor
The strategy of introducing electron-deficient units as the auxiliary electron acceptor for push-pull porphyrins was the most successful progress in recent years.
Porphyrin conjugated with electron-rich or electron-deficient unit in the acceptor (A) Molecular structure, (B) absorption spectra of, (C) J-V curves and, (D) IPCE of LW5 and LW24 devices.
A 50% improved PCE was reported when places the DPQ in the acceptor instead of the donor part (6.0 vs. 4.0%).
By introducing benzoic acid or corresponded ester before constructing porphine macrocyle, porphyrin dyes without triple bond in the acceptor can be obtained (acceptor 18 in Figure 6) (Hayashi et al., 2015).
Kim and co-workers reported series of push-pull porphyrins with benzoic acid or 2-cyano-3-phenylacrylic acid (acceptor 19 in Figure 6) (Seo et al., 2012).
HKK-Por1 incorporated with 4-benzoic acid obtained a PCE of 5.9%, while 2,4-ZnP-CNCOOH porphyrin with 2-cyano-3-phenylacrylic acid acceptor achieved remarkable 8.5% with the HC-A1 co-adsorbent (Kang et al., 2013).
Through one-pot with two-step condensation reactions, followed by high-yielding metalation and hydrolysis steps, Hung and Diau synthesized a series of A2B2 porphyrin, in which 2 acceptors were used to enhance the dye-loading amount and control the adsorption geometry as well (Ambre et al., 2012, 2013; Luo et al., 2015).
They placed the donors and acceptors at macrcycle's cis-position.
LW11 porphyrin featured with asymmetry character, in which 4-ethynyl- N,N-dimethylaniline was donor whilst 4-ethynylpyridine as acceptor.
These results suggested that 4-ethynylpyridine successfully played the acceptor role as a D-A sensitizer.
This result suggested that 2-carboxypyridyl outperforms the 4-carboxyphenyl as the anchoring group and acceptor.
Take the recent DSSC PCE record improvement from 12.3 to 13.0% as an example, the major contribution came from optimizing the YD2-o-C8 porphyrin structure on both donor and acceptor positions.
Indeed, in the other field of donor-acceptor polymer, it has been demonstrated that a smaller band gap and low-lying HOMO energy level can be obtained with a “weak donor-strong acceptor” strategy, whereas the charge mobility, molecular interaction, and stability can also be adjusted by varying the electron donating ability of the donor moiety and the electron affinity of the acceptor moiety.
As discussed above, the meso-donor group is likely electronically isolated with the porphyrin macrocycle.
Thus, instead of expecting broader light harvesting area by tuning the donor structure, future work could be more focused on developing new donor groups that could react fast with the redox couple and retard the recombination.
We suppose the many donor parts from highly efficient organic sensitizers are promising for designing new porphyrin sensitizer (we summarized some of these groups in Figure 13).
As a success example, the XW11 porphyrin reported by Xie et al., in which phenothiazine derivatives was known as popular donor group to construct metal-free organic dye.
The VC-70 porphyrin incorporated with indoline donor group also exhibited impressive DSSC performance.
Fortunately, extending the IPCE of porphyrin based DSSC could be realized by tailoring the donor-acceptor structure of porphyrin molecule.The slow diffusion of bulky Co(II/III) complex into photoanode films along with the fast recombination of photo-excited electrons with the oxidized redox species make Co(II/III) complex electrolytes a challenging.
Thus, facile engineering the porphyrin donor structure to make a favorable interaction with cobalt complexes, consequently a fast regeneration processes is necessary.The volatile liquid electrolyte now frequently used in DSSC can not fulfil the request for the future application of DSSC because of its poor long-term stability under high temperature.
Fortunately, extending the IPCE of porphyrin based DSSC could be realized by tailoring the donor-acceptor structure of porphyrin molecule.
Thus, facile engineering the porphyrin donor structure to make a favorable interaction with cobalt complexes, consequently a fast regeneration processes is necessary.
In recent years, research in the field of thin-film organic photovoltaics (OPVs) toward commercialization has progressed significantly since the introduction of donor–acceptor interfaces.1−7 The bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure that is widely used as an active layer in OPVs provides not only a large interfacial area for exciton dissociation but also an interpenetrated nanoscale network for charge carrier transport.8 A power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 10% has been reported in solution-processed BHJ OPV cells, which use a blend of a polymer and an acceptor.4,9,10 In contrast, coevaporation methods are able to precisely control layer thicknesses in BHJ structures on the order of nanometers by controlling the evaporation rates and times.11 However, it is very difficult to control the molecular orientation, morphology, and crystallinity in coevaporated BHJ films by changing the evaporation parameters.
A BHJ structure is created owing to several molecular characteristics such as the interaction forces between molecules and between molecules and substrates, molecular aggregation ability, and molecular adsorption and desorption abilities on the substrate.12−14 To further enhance OPV performance, understanding the precise control of the interactions between the molecules and between the molecules and the substrate is key as it will allow the production of the ideal BHJ structure without carrier traps, which are created by molecular aggregations, grain boundaries, and areas that deviate from the ideal donor–accepter molecular ratio.15
ZnPc is a planar molecule with a high crystallinity, and C60 is a spherical molecule that is a good electron acceptor.
Herein, we have discussed the mechanism underpinning the growth of an ideal interpenetrating donor–acceptor network on a face-on ZnPc substrate.
The interaction with perovskite has been correlated to solvent properties like dielectric constant, molecular dipole moment, Gutmann donor number and boiling point.
The effect of particular solvent vapour on the perovskite properties can be explained by considering the solvent properties like dielectric constant, molecular dipole moment, Gutmann donor number, boiling point etc.
Aprotic polar solvents lack O–H or N–H bonds and so do not have hydrogen bonding.44 However, due to the presence of carbonyl or sulfoxide groups they can act as hydrogen bond acceptors.
In addition DMSO has the higher value of Gutmann donor number compared to DMF and therefore coordinating ability of DMSO is greater.
The Gutmann donor number is a quantitative measure of Lewis basicity and gives the ability of a solvent to solvate cations and Lewis acids.45,47 It is defined as the negative enthalpy value for the 1 : 1 adduct formation between a Lewis base and the standard Lewis acid antimony pentachloride, in dilute solution in the non-coordinating solvent 1,2-dichloroethane with a zero donor number.
The donor number of acetone is much smaller than that of DMSO and DMF.
For the aprotic solvents therefore, the solvent coordination ability follows the same trend as its Gutmann donor number.
2-Propanol has a lower polarity compared to water but a higher Gutmann donor number.
Both chlorobenzene and toluene have lower values of dipole moment and very low values of Gutmann donor numbers; toluene has lower numbers than chlorobenzene.
It is observed that the coordination ability of different solvents with the cations of CH3NH3PbI3 follows the same trend as the Gutmann donor number.
Thus donor number is an important parameter and can be used to interpret the coordination ability of a solvent, with perovskite materials.
We showed that aprotic solvents like DMSO and DMF considerably deteriorates the perovskite properties in a very short time due to their high molecular polarity, Gutmann donor number and high boiling point.
Due to the higher Gutmann donor number of 2-propanol, it can solvate the organic cation CH3NH3+ more efficiently as compared to water.
Having very low values of molecular dipole moment and Gutmann donor numbers, chlorobenzene and toluene are not able to affect perovskite much.
The effect of different solvent has been correlated to the solvent properties like dielectric constant, molecular dipole moment, Gutmann donor number, and boiling point.
We show that donor number is an important parameter and can be used to interpret the coordination ability of a solvent with perovskite materials.
The use of a water-soluble double-cable copolymer made it possible to enhance the control on the nanomorphology of the active blend, thus reducing phase-segregation phenomena, as well as the macroscale separation between the electron acceptor and donor components.
Indeed, in the BHJ architecture, the active layer—which is placed between an anode electrode (ITO) and a cathode (layer of Al)—is essentially formed by intermixing an electron donor (ED, a π-conjugated polymer) with an electron acceptor (EA, usually a fullerene derivative) material.
In addition to the use of WSCPs as electron donor materials, in order to prepare completely green active layers of BHJ cells and thus promote a high contact area between EA and ED components, water-soluble fullerene derivatives should also be used as EA moieties [15].
The regioregular homopolymeric precursor PT6Br was prepared starting from 2,5-dibromo-3-(6-bromohexyl)thiophene (2,5-BT6Br) [5,20] (p. 2,3); while the post-polymerization functionalization of PT6Br gave the corresponding water-soluble homopolymer PT6buP+, the water-soluble electron acceptor fullerene derivative (C60-Ser) was obtained from the properly functionalized serinol, according to the procedure shown in Scheme 1.
Usually, the main electron acceptor material used in BHJ solar cells is PC61BM, a fullerene ester-derivative which, owing to its good solubility and miscibility with π-conjugated polymers, performs quite well when they are mixed together in a blend.
For this purpose, an electron acceptor material which is completely soluble in water and alcohols, like the previously prepared electron donor polymer (PT6buP+), was synthesized to overcome any miscibility problems with the two components in the final BHJ photoactive layer.
The FT-IR bands of homopolymers (PT6Br and PT6buP+), double-cable copolymers (P[(T6Br)-co-(T6F)] and P[(T6buP+)-co-(T6F)]) and electron acceptor material (C60-Ser), as well as their assignments, are shown in Tables S2 and S3.
This material is characterized by a higher photo-current than its homopolymeric counterpart, and this may be ascribed to the presence of the fullerene group chemically linked to the polyconjugated backbone, thus avoiding phase-separation and aggregation phenomena usually observed when the electron acceptor molecule is only physically blended with the electron donor polymer.
This result is particularly promising since, with the proposed approach, electron donor and electron acceptor moieties can be collected within a single material which, at the same time, can be applied to different surfaces, avoiding the use of toxic or non-environmentally friendly solvents.
According to the higher value of JSC recorded for the device based on the double-cable copolymer, the obtained results indicate an improved charge collection efficiency when the electron acceptor material is directly linked to the electron donor main chain.
A new double-cable donor–acceptor polythiophene derivative has been successfully synthesized using an easy and effective post-polymerization approach on regioregular poly[3-(6-bromohexylthiophene)] (PT6Br) by means of a Grignard coupling reaction with C60-fullerene.
The suggested synthetic approach—leading to a single copolymeric electron donor material which contains both water-solubilizing groups and electron acceptor moieties at the same time—provides a new simple and versatile architecture for the construction of efficient donor–acceptor intramolecular polymers.
The active layer of an OPV cell is typically a blend of an electron-donor material and an electron-acceptor material, which form a heterojunction that facilitates efficient charge separation.103,104 The morphology of this blend is crucial to ensuring that the donor and acceptor materials are in intimate contact and that the excitons generated by light absorption are efficiently separated and transported to the respective electrodes.
This electric field is created by a difference in the energy levels of the donor and acceptor materials that make up the active layer.
The active layer of an OPV cell typically consists of a blend of an electron-donor material and an electron-acceptor material, which form a heterojunction that facilitates charge separation.
The donor material, such as a conjugated polymer, is designed to have a high ionization potential, meaning that it has a strong tendency to donate an electron.
The acceptor material, such as a fullerene or non-fullerene acceptor, is designed to have a low electron affinity, meaning that it has a strong tendency to accept an electron.109,110 When a photon is absorbed in the active layer, an exciton is generated, which is a bound state of an electron and a hole.
The exciton is then dissociated into free charge carriers at the donor–acceptor interface, and the electron and hole are separated and transported to the respective electrodes.
The donor and acceptor materials must be in intimate contact to ensure that the exciton can efficiently dissociate into free charge carriers.
The morphology is typically optimized through the use of solvent processing or annealing to ensure that the donor and acceptor materials form a well-ordered and continuous heterojunction.
The electronic properties of the donor and acceptor materials also play a significant role in charge separation.
The energy levels of the donor and acceptor materials must be appropriately aligned to facilitate efficient charge separation.109,111 The energy offset between the donor and acceptor materials determines the driving force for charge separation, and an appropriate offset is required to ensure that the generated charges can be efficiently collected at the respective electrodes.112,113 The working principle of OPV is demonstrated in Fig.
4.114 To improve charge separation in OPV cells, researchers have developed various strategies, including the use of alternative acceptor materials, such as non-fullerene acceptors, and the development of tandem structures, which allow for multiple exciton dissociation and can enhance the overall efficiency of the device.
The electrodes, typically made of conductive materials such as indium tin oxide (ITO), aluminum, or silver, are in contact with the active layer and collect the generated charges.116,117 The efficiency of charge collection is influenced by several factors, including the morphology of the active layer, the mobility of the charge carriers, and the alignment of the energy levels of the donor and acceptor materials.
In single-layer OPV cells, the donor and acceptor materials are mixed together in the same layer, which allows for a simpler device architecture and potentially lower production costs.116 When light is incident on the donor–acceptor layer, it generates electron–hole pairs that are separated by the built-in electric field.
Donor–acceptor blend
This layer is a single layer that combines both the donor and acceptor materials.
The donor material is typically a polymer or small molecule that absorbs light and generates electrons, while the acceptor material is typically a fullerene derivative that accepts electrons.
In bilayer OPVs, the electron-donating layer is typically a conjugated polymer or a small molecule with a low ionization potential, while the electron-accepting layer is usually a fullerene derivative or a non-fullerene acceptor with a high electron affinity.119,120 The two layers are usually deposited using solution-based methods such as spin-coating.
The blend forms an interpenetrating network of donor and acceptor materials, which allows for efficient charge separation and transport.
The active layer of an OPV cell typically consists of a blend of electron-donor and electron-acceptor materials, which together form an organic semiconductor.130 These two materials function together to create a charge-separated state upon exposure to light, leading to the production of electrical energy.
Donor–acceptor molecules typically have a conjugated backbone consisting of alternating electron-rich (donor) and electron-deficient (acceptor) moieties.
This allows for efficient charge transfer and separation when the material is exposed to sunlight.131 Some of the most frequently used donor–acceptor compounds in OPV cells are conjugated polymers and small molecules as electron donors illustrated in Fig.
6(a) and fullerene and non-fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors illustrated in Fig.
Recent advances on the chemical structures of (a) donor molecules (b) acceptor molecules.130–134
The selection of donor–acceptor compounds depends on factors such as their absorption spectra, energy levels, and solubility, as well as the desired efficiency and stability of the OPV cell.
The resulting complex (CD3ND2…PbI2) is acidic enough (N–D is activated) to be deprotonated by a strong base of BA (donor number = 42 kcal/mol).
However, it cannot be deprotonated by DMF, because DMF (donor number = 26 kcal/mol) is a weaker base than BA.
Here, we investigated the interrelation between the instantaneous carrier density (n) per donor (D)/acceptor (A) interface area and the carrier density (ncollected) collected as photocurrent in PTB7/C70 heterojunction (HJ) device.
The ΔOD spectra of the PC71BM (PTB7) neat film show a characteristic photoinduced absorption (PIA), which should be ascribed to the acceptor exciton (A*) [donor exciton (D*)] .
Therefore, we ascribed the PIA to the photo-created donor carriers (D+).
Now, let us evaluate the absolute numbers of the acceptor exciton (nA*), donor exciton (nD*) and donor carrier (nD+) per absorbed photon from the ΔOD spectra of the PTB7/C70 bilayer film.
OSCs comprise electron donor and electron acceptor materials.
When an electron of the donor material leaves the valence band, an unoccupied state (called a “hole”) is generated, which acts as a positively charged particle.
The junction of two materials with different LUMO and HOMO levels yields an interface called the “donor–acceptor (D–A)”: the donor material is the one with higher LUMO and HOMO values, while the acceptor is the one with the lowest values.
The electron is transferred from the donor to the acceptor material (charge transfer (CT) state formation, Figure 1b), and the hole follows the opposite direction (charge formation, Figure 1c).
Bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) photoactive layers comprise a blend of at least two semiconductors creating a bicontinuous network of a donor (hole-transporting) and an acceptor (electron-transporting).
In initial BHJ-OSCs, a conjugated polymer with a low band gap and a soluble molecule were used as the donor and acceptor, respectively, the most common being poly[2-methoxy-5-(2j-ethylhexyloxy)-p-phenylene vinylene] (MEH-PPV) polymer and fullerene derivatives such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM).
Over the last decade, high/mid-gap polymer donors such as polythieno[3,4-b]thiophene-co-benzodithiophene] (PTB7) and poly[(9,9-bis(3j-(N,N-dimethylamino)propyl)-2,7-fluorene)-alt-2,7-(9,9-dioctylfluorene)] (PFN), with some F instead of H atoms, have been synthesized.
Besides, potent absorbers and low-band–gap non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) such as rylene diimides have significantly raised the efficiencies, with values currently surpassing 13% [8].
The active layer comprised a blend of a semiconducting polymer donor (PTB7) and a fullerene acceptor (PC71BM).
As mentioned earlier, most OSCs are based on the BHJ architecture [7], which comprises a bicontinuous nanoscale network of a donor and acceptor that maximizes the interfacial area.
The most widely used active layers in these kinds of cells are based on poly-3-hexylthiophene (P3HT) or poly-3-octylthiophene (P3OT) as the donor and PCBM or PC70BM as the acceptor.
Hence, innovative materials for both the donor and acceptor that absorb light more efficiently, with improved HOMO/LUMO matching, more effective exciton dissociation, and enhanced charge mobility with good stability are sought.
In this section, the use of GRMs as acceptor materials is discussed, and the efficiency along with the cell configuration are summarized in Table 2.
In 2008, Liu and coworkers [62] were pioneers and described the use of solution-processable graphene modified with isocyanate as an acceptor in OSCs.
The same researchers used 10 wt% of the modified graphene and P3HT as the donor in an analogous device [63], reaching a maximum efficiency of 1.1% upon annealing at the same temperature for 10 min.
For instance, the incorporation of a mixture of graphene and functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (f-MWCNTs) as the acceptor and P3HT as the donor was attempted, but the resulting device had a lower PCE, given that graphene has larger surface area, improved ability as a charge carrier, and enhanced dispersibility compared with the f-MWCNTs.
The same group [70] grafted C60 fullerene to rGO via a lithiation reaction, and the grafted samples acted as electron acceptors in the active layer of the cell: ITO/PEDOT:PSS/C60-g-rGO:P3HT/Al.
GNRs, which are highly soluble and easily processable into thin films, have also been tested as electron acceptors in OSCs with PTB7-Th as the electron donor [65].
GQDs with sizes in the range of 3–5 nm have been used as acceptors and P3HT as a donor in different cell devices [71,72,73,74].
Those electrochemically synthesized [71] led to an efficiency of 1.28%, while GQDs synthesized by a hydrothermal technique and functionalized with aniline, in a cell with P3HT as donor, resulted in a PCE of 1.14%.
In order to attain effective OSCs, the work functions of the anode and the cathode should match the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor, respectively, to reduce electron- and hole-extraction barriers.
The use of GRMs as the HTL is discussed in this section, the acceptor materials are described, and the PCE along with the cell configuration is summarized in Table 3.
The work function of GO is about −4.8 eV that matches P3HT as a donor for effective hole extraction (Figure 15).
The same approach was used in cells based on conjugated polymer (PBDB-T) and non-fullerene acceptor (ITIC) as the active layer, leading to a PCE of 5.3% [98].
The work function of electron transport layer (ETL) materials needs to be low enough to match the LUMO of the acceptor in the active layer; this promotes electron extraction and subsequent mobility, thus minimizing series resistance of the OSCs.
The GO-Cs showed a work function close to 4.0 eV, that matches very well with the LUMO of the PCBM acceptor.
Previous works [106] reviewed the stability of OSCs and concluded that degradation comes from the separation of donor–acceptor phases, as well as the photo-oxidation of active layers and donor materials due to the diffusion of water and oxygen molecules through the interlayer/electrode.
Besides, the graphene concentration is a crucial parameter to take into account, which has to be sufficiently high to develop an interpenetrating donor/acceptor interface and an effective carriage path for the active layer.
Novel functionalized GRMs should be developed to match the energy levels of traditional donor and acceptor materials in the active layer and the transparent electrodes.
However, the number of efficient acceptor compounds available is rather limited, which hinders the discovery of new, high-performing donor:acceptor combinations.
Blending VC10 with PTB7-Th, a donor polymer, which gives rise to an absorption band at 550–780 nm complementary to that of VC10, enables the fabrication of organic solar cells (OSCs) featuring a power conversion efficiency of 9.24% and an energy loss of 0.52 eV.
Hence, this work establishes a new approach in the search for efficient acceptor molecules for solar cells and new guidelines for future photovoltaic material design.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) based on solution-processed bulk heterojunction (BHJ) active layers have emerged as promising solutions for the conversion of solar energy into electrical energy in building and indoor applications due to their unique advantages, such as being lightweight and semitransparent and the possibility of being processed by low-cost roll-to-roll methods.1−6 A blend of an electron-donating material and an electron-accepting material forms the BHJ active layer, creating internal donor–acceptor heterojunctions, and their optical and electrochemical properties are very important for the realization of a high power conversion efficiency (PCE).7−9
In the early stage of OSCs, fullerene and its derivatives (e.g., PC61BM and PC71BM) have been extensively employed as electron acceptors in OSCs due to their high electron mobility and isotropic charge transfer in the BHJ active layer.10−14 However, the PCEs of fullerene-based OSCs have been restrained to approximately 11% due to their low absorption coefficients in the visible region of the solar spectrum, their high cost of synthesis and purification, and the difficulty in tuning their frontier energy levels.15−18
In recent years, nonfullerene small-molecule acceptors (NFSMAs) have attracted extensive interest due to their promising characteristics, such as easy approachability, better absorption covering both visible and near-infrared (NIR) regions, and tunable frontier energy levels,19−22 and the PCE of OSCs has reached values in the range of 17–18% for a single junction active layer.23−27 It was predicted that a PCE greater than 20% can be attained by employing suitable donors and NFSMAs in the BHJ active layer and by device optimization,28−30 with values greater than 26% possible for indoor OSCs.31 However, although highly performing nonfullerene acceptors (i.e., the ITIC and Y6 families) are currently available, more work is needed to discover new families of NFSMAs with properties that increase the VOC, JSC, and FF values of the devices.
Thus, porphyrin derivatives are among the most relevant sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells,33,34 with efficiencies of up to 14%.35,36 However, the pioneering use of porphyrins in OSCs was disappointing as reported efficiencies were very low;37 the situation has changed over the past 5 years as Zn-porphyrin derivatives have been applied as donors and PC71BM or nonfullerene small molecules have been applied as acceptors, resulting in efficiencies of up to 12% in binary OSCs38,39 and 15% in ternary OSCs.40
Nevertheless, porphyrin-based compounds acting as acceptor units in OSCs are rarely reported, with the connection of strong electron-withdrawing moieties to the electron-donor Zn-porphyrin macrocycle being the strategy adopted.41 In 2014, two different porphyrin derivatives with two isoindigo as end-capped acceptor units were applied as nonfullerene acceptors in solution-processed solar cells paired with P3HT, and the OSCs showed a PCE of approximately 0.57%.42 Considering the efficient electron transport processes of porphyrins in natural systems, the acceptor behavior of porphyrins can be improved by judicious molecular design.
designed a star-shaped electron acceptor compound formed by a porphyrin core linked to four units of perylene bis-imide as end groups and applied it as a nonfullerene acceptor along with the polymer donor PBDB-T for PSCs (polymer solar cells) and achieved a PCE of 7.4%.43 Recently, Wang et al.
synthesized a series of porphyrin-based electron acceptor molecules and combined them with PTB7-Th as the electron donor for the BHJ active layer and achieved a maximum PCE of 4.28%.44 Hadmojo et al.
synthesized an electron acceptor molecule based on a Zn-porphyrin linked to four naphthalenediimide units using an ethyne bridge.
When paired with a medium-bandgap polymer donor (PTB7-Th), the OSCs showed a PCE of 8.15% and an energy loss of 0.61 eV.45 More recently, Belisle et al.
described an all-porphyrin OSC with a PCE of 7.2%.46 Finally, a series of n-type Zn-porphyrins coupled with 2FIC as strong electron-withdrawing units and different functional groups at the meso positions were reported, affording 7.23% as the best PCE in devices using PTB7-Th as the donor.47 Zhu et al.
reported the highest PCE reached to date (9.64%) in devices using PTB7-Th as the donor and Zn-porphyrin incorporating four PDI units as the acceptor.48 It should be remarked that in all these molecules, the Zn-Por is the electron-donor moiety.
These studies were limited to preparing new donors with the aim of obtaining higher VOC values by decreasing the HOMO energy of the porphyrin donor.49,50
Since the pioneering work by Sauvage et al.,51 Au(III) porphyrins have often been used as electron-accepting chromophores in donor–acceptor complexes for the study of photoinduced electron transfer due to their good stability and suitable redox properties.52,53 The triplet state of Au(III) porphyrin is directly formed by irradiation with a yield of unity52,54 and a lifetime of approximately 50 ns at room temperature.55
These results inspired us to examine the effects of a heavy metal atom on the photovoltaic properties of Au(III) porphyrins acting as an acceptor unit in BHJ OSCs.
In this work, we designed a new gold porphyrin-based acceptor (VC10) with an A2-D-A1-D-A2 skeleton, where A1 is a Au(III) porphyrin, A2 are the terminal groups of dicyanorhodanine moieties, and the linkers (D) are cyclopentadithiophene (CPDT) groups that exhibit broad absorption spectra covering the visible-to-NIR region of the solar spectrum.
A narrow optical bandgap of 1.39 eV and good electron transport properties were achieved due to the strong intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) between Au-Por and acceptor terminals.
Using VC10 as an electron acceptor and PTB7-Th56 as the donor (structures are displayed in Chart 1), we achieved an overall PCE of 9.24% and a low energy loss of 0.56 eV after simple optimization of the blend morphology by solvent vapor annealing (SVA).
The donor polymer PTB7-Th gave rise to an absorption in the λ = 500–800 nm range, perfectly complementary to that of VC10.
As a comparison, the donor polymer PTB7-Th showed HOMO and LUMO levels of −5.28 and −3.50 eV,62 with HOMO and LUMO offsets between VC10 and PTB7-Th suitable for electron transfer from the LUMO level of PTB7-Th to the LUMO of VC10 and hole transfer to/from the HOMO energy level of VC10 to the HOMO energy level of PTB7-Th after the generation of excitons in the active layer.
We selected PTB7-Th as the polymer donor since it exhibits absorption complementary to that of VC10, indicating panchromatic absorption by the PTB7-Th:VC10 active layer, which is beneficial for the light-harvesting efficiency of the OSCs.
Moreover, the energy loss (Eloss) was defined as Eloss = Eg – qVoc, where Eg is the onset of the IPCE spectra of the OSC.67 The estimated Eloss for PSCs based on the optimized PTB7-Th:VC10 was approximately 0.52 eV, which is the smallest Eloss described for PSCs based on porphyrin acceptors.
Due to their lower and higher electron densities, the bright and dark zones correspond to the donor- and acceptor-rich domains, respectively.
As the domain size of the donor and acceptor in the as-cast film is small, it may hinder the charge transport for electrons to holes toward the cathode (Al electrode) and anode (ITO) and result in a low value of FF.
In conclusion, in recent years, many Zn-porphyrin-based donors have been developed to produce highly efficient OSCs.
Nevertheless, a few examples of porphyrin-based acceptors, mainly Zn-porphyrins containing perylene diimide groups, can be found in the literature and usually display low efficiencies, demonstrating that more work is necessary in this important field.
This molecule has been used as a nonfullerene acceptor in OSCs blended with a conjugated polymer with complementary absorption as a donor, providing an excellent PCE of 9.24% and an energy loss of 0.52 eV after SVA treatment.
This result demonstrates that this structural design can be used to synthesize a new generation of nonfullerene acceptors based on gold porphyrins, providing new guidelines for molecular engineering of the central metal of porphyrin with the aim of constructing porphyrin-based acceptors.
Energy level alignment (ELA) at donor (D) -acceptor (A) heterojunctions is essential for understanding the charge generation and recombination process in organic photovoltaic devices.
Here, we systematically investigate ELA and its depth-dependent variation of a range of donor/non-fullerene-acceptor interfaces by fabricating and characterizing D-A quasi bilayers and planar bilayers.
The VL shifts result in reduced interfacial energetic offsets and increased charge transfer (CT) state energies which reconcile the conflicting observations of large energy level offsets inferred from neat films and large CT energies of donor - non-fullerene-acceptor systems.Energy level alignment (ELA) at donor-acceptor heterojunctions is of vital importance yet largely undetermined in organic solar cells.
In organic solar cells (OSCs), both charge generation and charge recombination occur at the donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces.
For example, in fullerene-acceptor-based OSCs (FA-OSCs), an energy offset of over 0.3 eV is usually observed in efficient devices.
This offset, determined by the energy difference between the highest occupied (ΔHOMO) or the lowest unoccupied (ΔLUMO) molecular orbitals of the donor and acceptor, was commonly believed to provide the necessary driving force for efficient charge separation1–5.
Contrary to this common belief in FA-OSCs, a wide range of non-fullerene-acceptor-based OSCs (NFA-OSCs) shows high efficiencies under negligible or even zero HOMO or LUMO offsets6–15.
1Schematic energy level diagram of donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces.a Energy level bending (ELB) scenario and b vacuum level (VL) shift scenario.
Schematic energy level diagram of donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces.
The donors and NFAs cannot be vacuum deposited into thin films due to their large size, and spin-coating uniform monolayers on top of each other and without intermixing are equally daunting.
By exploring an extended set of donor and acceptor materials, we find that an enhanced VL shift occurs for all D–A systems featuring significant intramolecular charge transfer and a large ΔHOMO prior to contact.
The cause of the enhanced VL shift is tentatively assigned to intermolecular charge transfer induced by strong electrostatic coupling between the donors and acceptors at the interface.
ELA diagrams of donors and acceptors found in the literature are usually derived from HOMO and LUMO energies measured from neat materials assuming VL alignment at the D–A interface, which often does not reflect the actual ELA due to the formation of interface dipole steps that shifts the VL23,24.
Here, two donors (PBDB-T, PM6) and two acceptors (ITIC, IT4F) are selected as model materials, as they yield high power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) in the corresponding OSCs and share, respectively, similar molecular backbones (Supplementary Fig.
Quasi‐bilayer D–A films were fabricated by spin-coating (SC) the donor as the bottom layer on UVO-treated Au substrates (WF = 5.2–5.7 eV) and then spin-coating a NFA top layer using an orthogonal solvent, which yields a D–A bilayer that is close to a planar heterojunction25.
3, large WF shifts of 0.60–0.71 eV are found in all spin-coated bilayer films compared with their corresponded bottom donor layers, while the measured IPs are the same as those in neat ITIC (IP = 5.74 ± 0.1 eV) and IT4F (IP = 5.79 ± 0.1 eV) films.
Furthermore, angle-dependent near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (NEXAFS) spectroscopy data of the spin-coated donor and acceptor films (Supplementary Fig.
4, Supplementary Table 1) show that the donor polymers lack any preferential orientation.
We fabricate homogenous monolayer films and multilayer films of the donors and acceptors by depositing closely packed LS films onto Au or AlOx substrate.
The WF and IP are measured layer by layer when deposited either with donor monolayers on Au substrates followed by acceptor monolayers (Au/D/A), or acceptor monolayers on AlOx followed by donor monolayers (AlOx/A/D).
The donor on Au interface (WFAu = 4.5–4.6 eV) also follows the established model, displaying a small interface dipole step or VL alignment as their pinning energies dictate (see Supplementary Fig. 8).
There is no change in the IP going from the monolayer (ML) adjacent to the metal substrate to the 10 ML thick bulk equivalent film for any of the donors or NFAs.
At the D–A interface for both the Au/D/A and AlOx/A/D planar bilayer heterojunctions, we again see abrupt shifts of the WF (completed in 1–2 ML): a large increase for the NFA top layer cases and a relatively smaller decrease for the donor top layer cases, see Supplementary Table 3.
There is no change in the IP going from the monolayer at the organic heterojunction to the 10 ML thick bulk equivalent top film for any of the donors or NFAs.
2Mapping the energy level alignment at the donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces in monolayer precision.IP (ionization potential) and WF (work function) evolution of Au/D/A (solid lines) and AlOx/A/D (dashed lines) heterojunctions as a function of D, A layer number (top axis) or the corresponding film thickness (bottom axis, presented by taking 3 nm as the average thickness of a monolayer).
Upon the donor and acceptor stacking order, the substrate is in white, bottom phase is in red, and top phase is in blue.
Mapping the energy level alignment at the donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces in monolayer precision.
Upon the donor and acceptor stacking order, the substrate is in white, bottom phase is in red, and top phase is in blue.
A similar set of interfaces were prepared where the bottom NFA or donor layer was spin-coated onto the metal substrate, whereupon the corresponding top layers were added by LS deposition.
For all cases, it is evident that films with donors at the bottom and acceptors on top all show VL upshifts (positive ∆WF values) at the D–A interfaces, while those with acceptors at the bottom and donors on top always show VL downshifts (negative ∆WF values).
An interface dipole pointing from acceptor to donor side hence exists at all investigated donor–NFAs interfaces, whereas its size differs in D/A and A/D films.
Since the bilayer films are fabricated from different methods which may result in different molecular packing, we tentatively attribute this to the lower reorganization energy for the small acceptor molecules compared to the large bulky donor polymers to find an optimal position at the interface.
The relatively flexible movements of donors or acceptors assisted by the solvent molecules during the spin-coating process additionally may enable conversion of edge-on/face-on to face-on/face-on, enhancing the VL shift.
9).Table 1Summary of the ∆WF values for donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces based on different fabrication methods.WF difference between D–A bilayers and neat bottom layers is denoted as ∆WF, in which ∆WFD/A = WFAu/D/A − WFAu/D, ∆WFA/D = WF AlOx/A/D − WFAlOx/A.
Summary of the ∆WF values for donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces based on different fabrication methods.
Before contact or the VL shift correction, all combinations show very large interfacial energetic offsets, with ∆HOMO or ∆LUMO values larger than 0.6 eV, and the photovoltaic gap Γ (difference between neat donor HOMO and neat acceptor LUMO) smaller than 1.2 eV.
HOMO difference between donor and acceptor before (after) conatct is denoted as ∆HOMO (∆′HOMO).
LUMO difference between donor and acceptor before (after) conatct is denoetd as ∆LUMO (∆′LUMO).
∆ is the interface dipole inducing the vacuum level (VL) shift.Table 2Summary of the energetic offset ∆HOMO (∆′HOMO), ∆LUMO (∆′LUMO), photovoltaic gap Γ (Γ′) between donor (D) and acceptor (A) before (after) VL shift correction, as well as the charge-transfer state energy (ECT) and open-circuit voltage (VOC) values measured in devices.D(bottom)/A(top)∆HOMO (eV)∆′HOMO (eV)∆LUMO (eV)∆′LUMO (eV)Γ (eV)Γ′ (eV)ECT (eV)VOC (V)PBDB-T/ITIC0.860.260.930.331.031.631.500.89PBDB-T/IT4F0.910.261.180.530.781.431.310.69PM6/ITIC0.680.080.750.151.211.811.591.00PM6/IT4F0.730.021.000.290.961.671.460.82
HOMO difference between donor and acceptor before (after) conatct is denoted as ∆HOMO (∆′HOMO).
LUMO difference between donor and acceptor before (after) conatct is denoetd as ∆LUMO (∆′LUMO).
Summary of the energetic offset ∆HOMO (∆′HOMO), ∆LUMO (∆′LUMO), photovoltaic gap Γ (Γ′) between donor (D) and acceptor (A) before (after) VL shift correction, as well as the charge-transfer state energy (ECT) and open-circuit voltage (VOC) values measured in devices.
To investigate if other organic semiconductor materials undergo similar enhanced VL shifts at D–A interfaces, we study additional types of donors and acceptors including (1) the newly developed high-efficiency Y-series NFAs (Y6, Y11), (2) another ultra-narrow bandgap NFA series (IEICO, IEICO-4F), (3) fullerene acceptors (C60, PC70BM), (4) a new type donor of high PCE (D18), (5) old type donors (TQ1, P3HT), and (6) the wide-bandgap polymer PFO.
In particular, significantly enhanced interface VL shifts are observed in systems with both donors and acceptors featuring A-D alternating structures (donor: PBDB-T, PM6, D18, TQ1, acceptor: ITIC, IT4F, Y6, Y11).
On the contrary, no enhanced VL shift (>0.1 eV) is found for NFAs combined with donors lacking the push-pull structure, with the exception of the P3HT/ITIC combination.
We also observe that the interfaces featuring donors and acceptors with small HOMO offsets based on the neat film IPs (i.e., before contact) only show small or negligible dipoles.
The donor and acceptor systems in this region share a common feature of significant intramolecular charge transfer.
The enhanced VL shift is then influenced by two factors jointly: HOMO offset between corresponding neat films and the degree of intramolecular charge transfer of the donor and acceptor.
As we see no significant change in the HOMO energy of the donors or acceptors at the heterojunctions, significant hybridization is unlikely but not ruled out completely.
Hence, the enhanced VL shifts obtained for the D–A systems featuring strong intramolecular charge transfer in both the donor and acceptor molecules and a significant ΔHOMO may have their origin in charge transfer across the D–A interface driven by an intrinsic interfacial electric field.
Significant intramolecular charge transfer will lead to large variations in molecular electrostatic potential (ESP) and hence increased attraction between donor and acceptor molecules at an interface.
The increased electrostatic interaction can guide the donor–acceptor molecular ordering at the interface to maximize the interfacial electric field37, and a large ΔHOMO would make it highly possible that a net charge reorganization occurs, with the hole density on the donor and electron density on the acceptor.
14, the donors show mainly negative potential areas where yellow and red signify averaged ESP values of −76.39 and −17.36 meV, respectively.
In contrast, most areas of acceptors show more positive potentials where cyan and blue correspond to averaged ESP values of 73.63 and 138.49 meV, respectively.
To calculate the interface dipole induced between these molecules that have alternating D–A segments, molecular models of D units from donors (BDT-T from PBDB-T, BDT-TF from PM6) and A units from acceptors (IC unit from ITIC, IC-2F unit from IT4F) are built up with planar molecular geometries, and their calculated ESP distributions are displayed in Supplementary Fig. 15.
from SC/SC films with the donor as the bottom layer.Table 3Summary of the calculated dipole dimensions for donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces of face-on/face-on orientation, calculated vacuum level potential steps (ΔVLcal.
Summary of the calculated dipole dimensions for donor (D)–acceptor (A) interfaces of face-on/face-on orientation, calculated vacuum level potential steps (ΔVLcal.
The consistency of the dipole direction with its positive pole next to the donor side and negative pole next to the NFA side explains why, in the UPS measurements, there are always WF upshifts when the NFA is at the top and downshifts when the donor is at the top.
An extended investigation enables us to generalize that VL shifts occur for systems where the donor and acceptor feature significant intramolecular charge transfer (so-called push-pull systems) and where the ΔHOMO obtained from neat film values is large (>0.3 eV).
We propose that the enhanced VL shifts have an origin in ESP differences between the donor and acceptor materials, guiding the intermolecular alignment at the interface and inducing interfacial charge transfer.
All spin-coated (SC/SC) bilayer films were prepared by spin-coating donor from chlorobenzene (CB) (10 mg mL−1) as the bottom layer, and then spin-coating acceptor from dichloromethane (DCM) (6 mg mL−1) as the top layer.
The SC/LS films were prepared by firstly spin-coating donor (acceptor) film at the bottom and then depositing three more Langmuir-Schäfer layers of the acceptor (donor) on the top.
The spin-coating/surface-spreading (SC/SS) bilayer films were made by firstly spin-coating acceptor as the bottom layer, and then depositing the donor film formed on DI water surface through surface-spreading39 method during which donor solution of 10 mg mL−1 in CB was adopted.
Donor (PBDB-T or PM6) and acceptor (ITIC or IT4F) were dissolved in chlorobenzene (CB) to a total concentration of 20 mg mL−1 with 1:1 mass ratio and 0.5% DIO (v/v, DIO/ CB) as an additive, and the solution was stirred for 3 h inside the glovebox prior to use.
The polymer solar cells obtained by pairing this polymer with a non-fullerene acceptor demonstrated a high power conversion efficiency of 11.41% with both high open circuit voltage of 0.94 V and high short circuit current density of 17.32 mA cm−2 benefitted from the complementary absorption of the donor and acceptor, and the high hole transfer efficiency from acceptor to donor although the highest occupied molecular orbital level difference between the donor and acceptor is only 0.11 eV.
In organic photovoltaics, non-fullerene acceptors relax matching rules and allow for the development of new donor polymers.
design a donor polymer and obtain high photoconversion efficiencies despite the low energy offset for hole transfer between the acceptor and the donor.
Bulk-heterojunction polymer solar cells (PSCs) are composed of a blend active layer of a p-type conjugated polymer as donor and an n-type semiconductor as acceptor sandwiched between an anode and a cathode where at least one of the two electrodes should be transparent123.
The n-type semiconductors used as acceptor in the PSCs include fullerene derivatives4, n-type conjugated polymers56789101112 and n-type organic semiconductors (n-OS)1314151617181920212223.
Among the acceptors, n-OS acceptors show distinguished advantages of easy tuning of absorption and electronic energy levels, strong absorbance, good morphology stability and more suitable for flexible devices.
Therefore, the non-fullerene PSCs with n-OS as acceptor have attracted great attention recently, and their power conversion efficiency (PCE) has rapidly increased to 9–11% (refs 24, 25, 26).
In PSCs, due to the low dielectric permittivity and relatively large excitons binding energy of organic semdonductor, polymer donor and acceptor with cascading enegy levels (the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels of the conjugated polymer donor should be higher than the correponding LUMO and HOMO levels of the acceptor) are specially required to provide a driving force for excitons dissociation at the heterojunction interface27282930.
In this cascade model, it is generally accepted that the LUMO/HOMO energy levels differences between the donor and acceptor (ΔELUMO and ΔEHOMO) should be larger than 0.3 eV for efficient excitons dissociation to overcome binding energy (usually 0.3–0.5 eV) of the excitons produced in the donor and acceptor phases by absorbing photons27303132.
One crucial issue of the PSCs is their relatively large photon energy loss (Eloss) at 1 sun illuminaiton which is defined as Eloss=Eg–eVoc, where Eg is the lowest optical bandgap of the donor and acceptor components27333435.
In the non-fullerene PSCs, medium bandgap polymer donor–low bandgap n-OS acceptor pairs are particular interesting due to their complementary absorption in the visible-near infrared region, providing an effective approch for getting a high Jsc.
For example, the non-fullerene PSCs based on a medium bandgap D-A copolymer PffT2-FTAZ-2DT as donor and a low bandgap n-OS IEIC (ref.
19) (Eg of 1.59 eV) as acceptor with a ΔEHOMO of 0.17 eV showed a PCE of 7.3% with a Voc of 0.998 V and a Eloss of ca.
The device based on a 2D-conjugated D-A copolymer PBDB-T as donor and a low bandgap n-OS ITIC (ref.
20) (Eg of 1.59 eV) as acceptor with a ΔEHOMO of 0.18 eV demonstrated a PCE of 11.21% with a Voc of 0.899 V and a Eloss of 0.64 eV (ref.
Recently, we developed a series medium bandgap 2D-conjugated D-A copolymers based on bithienyl-benzodithiophene (BDTT) donor unit and fluorine-substituted benzotriazole (FBTA) acceptor unit2539, which showed good photovoltaic performance in the PSCs with the polymers as donor and n-OS as acceptors1125.
Among the polymers, J61 as donor blending with the n-OS ITIC as acceptor with a ΔEHOMO of 0.16 eV in the non-fullerene PSCs displayed a high PCE of 9.53% with a Voc of 0.89 V and a Eloss of 0.68 eV (ref.
The high photovoltaic performance of the non-fullerene PSCs with the small ΔEHOMO between donor and acceptor is a very important phenomenon for the development of high performance PSCs by increasing Voc and decreasing Eloss.
Very interestingly, the non-fullerene PSC based on J71 as donor and ITIC as acceptor with a smal ΔEHOMO of 0.11 eV demonstrates a high PCE of 11.41% with high Voc of 0.94 V, high Jsc of 17.32 mA cm−2 and a low Eloss of 0.63–0.65 eV.
In the molecular design of conjugated polymer donor materials for PSCs, the main chain engineering (such as alternative donor (D)-acceptor (A) copolymerization)4041 and side chain engineering (such as conjugated side chains and electron-withdrawing substituents)3042 are widely used strategy to tune absorption spectra and electronic energy levels of the conjugated polymers.
Silicon (Si)-containing fused rings, such as dibenzosilole and dithienosilole, are representative donor units in the high performance D-A copolymer donor materials.
Figure 2a shows the molecular structures of the polymer J71 and the n-OS ITIC acceptor, and Fig.
In addition, as one of the series of BDTT-FBTA-based copolymers112539, J71 also demonstrates well complementary absorption with that of ITIC n-OS acceptor in the wavelength range of 400–800 nm, which is beneficial for light harvesting in the non-fullerene PSCs.
The weight ratio of J71 donor: ITIC acceptor is 1: 1 according to our recent work in the studies of non-fullerene PSCs based on J61:ITIC25, considering the similar chemical structure of J71 with J61.
As mentioned in the Introduction part, a crucial issue in the studies of PSCs is to minimize the device photon energy loss (Eloss) which is defined as Eloss=Eg–eVoc, where Eg is the lowest optical band gap among the donor and acceptor components333435.
In the present PSCs based on J71: ITIC, the lowest Eg is 1.59 eV for the ITIC acceptor with onset absorption at 782 nm (see Supplementary Fig.
proposed a more accurate method to measure the Eg value of the active layer (blend of donor and acceptor) of the PSCs from IPCE spectrum36.
3b) demonstrate broad and high photo-response from 300 to 790 nm, which indicates high photo-conversion efficiency for the absorptions of both J71 polymer donor and ITIC acceptor.
The IPCE spectra in the wavelength range of 650–790 nm are corresponding to the excitons dissociation of the ITIC acceptor with the hole transfer from the HOMO of ITIC to that of J71.
The high IPCE values in this range confirm that efficient hole transfer process did occour even though the ΔEHOMO between J71 donor and ITIC acceptor is only 0.11 eV.
It should be noted that the low ΔEHOMO request can provide big chance in the molecular design of photovoltaic materials, such as for the polymer donor to further downshift its EHOMO toward a larger Voc, thus it will be promising to address the big challenge of PSCs for maximizing Voc and Jsc at the same time and ultimately getting a high-efficiency.
10, reveal that the blend films have relatively smooth surface with a root-mean-square (RMS) roughness of 0.722 nm for the as-cast J71: ITIC blend film and 0.741 nm for the thermal annealed blend film, indicating the good miscibility between the alkylsilyl substituted J71 polymer donor and ITIC acceptor.
This highly intercrystalline morphology asross the active layer enhances the polymer donor domain connectivity and thereby improves the hole transport, which correlates well with its superior device performance.
Non-fullerene PSCs were fabricated with J71 as donor and a narrow bandgap n-OS ITIC as acceptor, and the PCE of the PSCs based on J71/ITIC (1:1, w/w) with thermal annealing at 150 °C for 10 min reached 11.41% with simultaneously high Voc of 0.94 V and a high Jsc of 17.32 mA cm−2.
The high Voc, which results in a low Eloss of 0.63–0.65 eV for the PSC, is benefitted from the low-lying HOMO level of the J71 donor.
The high Jsc should be ascribed to the extraordinarily high exciton charge separation efficiency even though the HOMO energy difference between the donor and acceptor is quite small (only 0.11 eV).
The results indicate that the alkylsilyl substitution is an effective way in designing high performance conjugated polymer photovoltaic materials and the driving force for the hole transfer from the acceptor to donor could be quite small in the non-fullerene PSCs with the n-OS as acceptor.
11.4% Efficiency non-fullerene polymer solar cells with trialkylsilyl substituted 2D-conjugated polymer as donor.
As an optical spacer layer, a zinc oxide (ZnO) which is a transparent electron acceptor with the refractive index of about 1.4 at 550 nm is chosen despite the fact that its relevant refractive index may vary with the ZnO coating method [23,24].
Nonfullerene small molecular acceptors (NF-SMAs) show potential photovoltaic performance, accelerating the development of organic solar cells (OSCs).
Herein, the first theoretical designing of a series of indacenodithiophene-based (IDIC1–IDIC6) acceptor chromophores was done by structural tailoring with various well-known acceptors from the recently synthesized IDICR molecule.
Structural tailoring with various acceptors resulted in a narrowing of the energy gap (2.245–2.070 eV) with broader absorption spectra (750.919–660.544 nm).
Generally, OSCs are made up of electrodes and an active layer of organic solar cells (OSCs), composed largely of electron-donor and electron-acceptor counterparts.5 Upon interaction of electromagnetic radiations with the active layer, electrons travel from HOMO to LUMO.6 Organic solar cells blended with fullerene acceptors (FAs) exhibit a power conversion efficacy of 11–12% in the bulk heterojunction (BHJ).7,8 Fullerene derivatives (PC61BM and PC71BM) blended with organic solar cells show tremendous properties such as low reorganization energies, high electron mobility, and isotropic charge transfer.5,9 On large-scale use, fullerene-based OSCs have certain limitations such as low absorption in the visible region, low Voc, high band gap, high cost, and a limited number of energy levels.10,11 To address these limitations and to make solar cells more effective, scientists have been working to design and synthesize non-fullerene-based organic solar cells.12−14 Recently, fullerene-free organic solar cells have been classified into two categories: small molecular acceptor (SMA) solar cells and polymer solar cells.
Small molecular acceptor solar cells have better optoelectronic properties than polymer solar cells.15−17 A wide variety of constructional design foundations is offered by NFA molecules; however, the A–D–A-fashioned molecules are largely employed by implementing special core pieces (acting as donors), linkers, and terminal groups (acting as acceptors).18−22 Literature surveys show many studies that yield SCs based on small molecules, such as X-shaped donor molecules,23 star-shaped molecules,24 and linear geometric molecules.25 Moreover, the extended π-conjugation with fullerene-free compounds with intense absorption parameters has been improved via attachment with fluoro,26 cyano, and chloro units over the NFA skeleton.27 In this article, we have designed seven new A–D–A-type chromophores, namely, IDIC1–IDIC6, from a reference compound IDIC-C8(28) represented as IDICR.
All of the new compounds have been designed by changing the terminal acceptor unit of reference chromophores containing two 2-(2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1H-inden-1-ylidene) propanedinitrile (IC) units attached at the terminal with an electron-donating core, indacenodithiophene (IDT).
We studied the impact of various terminal acceptor units on the electronic, optical, and charge transfer behavior of the newly designed acceptor chromophores to evaluate them as efficient OSC-based compounds for future fabrication of high-performance electronic devices.
In the present study, IDICR is utilized as a parent chromophore consisting of an indacenodithiophene (IDT) core that acts as a D moiety, flanked by an acceptor (A), 2-(2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1H-inden-1-ylidene) propanedinitrile.
We substituted the end-capped acceptor of IDICR with different reported acceptors (Figure 1) to design IDIC1–IDIC6 chromophores (Figure 1) for exploration of the effect of various acceptors on the photophysical and optoelectronic properties.
IUPAC names and structural representation of acceptors.
This might be due to an increase in resonance and the strongly deactivating nature of the nitro group.39 The band gap further decreased from 2.169 to 2.129 eV in IDIC2 when halo groups (−Cl) were incorporated in end-capped acceptor units.
On increasing the number of chloro units on acceptor moieties, the band gap further decreased (2.111 eV) in IDIC3.
The electronic cloud for HOMO in IDICR and IDIC1–IDIC6 is significantly located over the central donor indacenodithiophene (IDT) and slightly on the acceptor, except for terminal benzene rings, while the LUMO electron density is concentrated dominantly all over the chromophore.
In a nutshell, the above discussion explicates that the modification of acceptor groups with strong electron-withdrawing units created a relatively smaller band gap between orbitals and efficient CT toward A from D, which shows them to be efficient materials for OSCs.
To explicate the DOS study, we divided our chromophores into two parts, i.e., donor (the core unit) and acceptor (the end-capped group), which are displayed by red and green lines, respectively.
Along the x-axis, the negative values in DOS graphs indicate the valence band (HOMO), while positive values indicate the conduction band (LUMO), and the distance between HOMO and LUMO denotes the energy gap.42 For IDICR the acceptor contributes 34.3% to HOMO and 63.3% to LUMO, while the donor contributes 65.7% to HOMO and 36.7% to LUMO.
Similarly, the acceptor contributes 33.9, 34.5, 34.9, 31.9, 31.8, and 35.5% to HOMO and 69.8, 70.3, 70.7, 75.6, 75.6, and 72.7% to LUMO in IDIC1–IDIC6, respectively.
In the same way, the donor contributes 66.1, 65.5, 65.1, 68.1, 68.2, and 64.5% to HOMO and 30.2, 29.7, 29.3, 24.4, 24.4, and 27.3% to LUMO for IDIC1–IDIC6, respectively.
The DOS investigation showed that there was substantial delocalization of the electronic cloud and an enormous amount of charge was transferred from donor to acceptor groups.
This further enhancement in λmax is examined in IDIC1–IDIC5 when two halo groups are introduced on the terminal benzene ring of the acceptor.
Therefore, it has been proved that by the structural tailoring of the reference molecule with efficient acceptor moieties, chromophores with broader absorption spectra and reduced band gap could be obtained, which would be appealing OSC material (Figure 5).
The open circuit voltage is directly associated with the energy difference of HOMO and LUMO of A and D molecules, i.e., HOMOdonor–LUMOacceptor.
In the current investigation, a renowned donor polymer PBDB-T46 is utilized for calculating the open circuit values and −4.936 eV is the simulated EHOMO value for the donor polymer.
Among the designed compounds, IDIC4 with reference to the energy difference of HOMOdonor exhibited a greater Voc value of 0.909 V. The Voc results of title compounds are found to be in the decreasing order of IDICR > IDIC4 > IDIC5 > IDIC1 > IDIC2 > IDIC3 > IDIC6.
Lower acceptor origin LUMO results in a higher Voc value and improved optoelectronic parameters.
The movement of electrons from HOMO of D molecules is increased by a low-lying LUMO of acceptor, which directly improves the optoelectronic characteristics.
Furthermore, the HOMO–LUMO band gap between the acceptor and donor units amplifies PEC values.
Figure 6 shows that the LUMO level of the donor polymer PBDB-T lies higher than the LUMO level of the acceptor chromophores.
This makes it easier to transfer electrons from the donor polymer to the acceptor segment, which improves the studied molecular optoelectronic parameters.
To explore the potential utilization of titled chromophores in the charge transfer for OSC materials, IDIC5 acceptor molecule was blended with PBDB-T donor polymer, and the complex was optimized at B3LYP functional with the 6-31G(d,p) basis set.
To observe the effective transfer of charge, we placed our designed chromophore parallel to the donor (PBDB-T) polymer.
Figure 7b reveals that an efficient electronic cloud is concentrated over PBDB-T for HOMO, while for LUMO, it is located over the end-capped acceptor moieties of IDIC5.
An effective transfer of electrons from donor to acceptor indicated that our derivatives are suitable OSCs that can be significantly utilized for optoelectronic devices.
Optimized geometry of PBDB-T:IDIC5 complex (a) and charge transfer phenomenon between PBDB-T donor polymer and IDIC5 chromophore (b).
The estimation of the behavior of transitions, specifically from the ground state (S0) to an excited state (S1), as well as donor–acceptor unit interaction and electron–hole localization, was performed utilizing B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) functional.
To accomplish TDM analysis, we divided the titled chromophores (IDICR and IDIC1–IDIC6) into two parts: end-capped acceptor (A) and the central donor (D) moiety, which are depicted in Figure 8 in red and green, respectively.
In the present study, a donor indacenodithiophene (IDT)-based core with A–D–A architecture non-fullerene IDICR chromophore has been quantum chemically designed by end-capped modifications to make efficient photovoltaic material.
Organic PV (OPV) has also been investigated for their feasibility in colored PV cells by combining various photoactive materials and electron acceptors2.
The variation of the HOMO-LUMO band gap is explored for varying packing arrangements of the 4mod BT-4TIC donor-acceptor molecule pair, by means of a high-throughput ab-initio random structure search of packing possibilities.
A typical OSC is formed by mixed donor and acceptor molecules placed between two electrodes.
The absorption of the solar photons in the donor-acceptor mixture gives rise to electron-hole pairs which spontaneously separate into charge carriers, the latter being collected by charge-selective electrodes thereby generating electric power.
One of the most important and used magnitudes in OSCs is the difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor, which is commonly known as the HOMO-LUMO band gap, or simply gap hereafter.
The difference of the ionisation potential of the isolated donor and the electron affinity of the isolated acceptor therefore gives a quite good estimation of what the gap of the compound will be, as long as both molecules interact weakly in the device.
It is well established that mutual orientation of donor and acceptor molecules at their interface in the condensed phase is not easy to predict and has paramount influence on the photovoltaic effect [8, 9].
For the purpose, we do an ab-initio random structure search (AIRSS) [13], Fig 1 (up), by repeatedly throwing random initial orientations and arrangements of an acceptor and a donor molecule into a big enough simulation box, relaxing them, and monitoring the structure, binding energy, and gap variation of the obtained configurations.
The 4mod BT donor, displayed in Fig 1 (down), is composed of low-gap blocks of the polymer PBTZT-stat-BDTT-8 [14], in particular, 4 blocks of mod ified-benzothiadiazole (B) and thiophene (T) units.
Donor-acceptors partners of this kind, formed by T-like and B-like units, have recently drawn substantial attention.
A very interesting finding is the ambipolar character of the TBTBT donor because of its potential applications in organic electronic devices [18].
One of the most studied acceptors is ITIC, a bulky seven-ring fused core indacenodithieno[2,3-b]thiophene, IT, end-capped with 3-(dicyanomethylidene)-indan-1-one, IC, and with four 4-hexylphenyl groups substituted on it [19].
It is proposed to be a generator of long-lived charge species upon direct photoexcitation, as inferred from the slow ground-state bleach rise in the donor partner [22].
The geometric mean of the widths of these two distributions amounts to ≃90% of that of the gap and suggests that the shift of the HOMO on the donor and the LUMO on the acceptor due each other’s weakly bound presence is much less affected by the DFT gap problem than the absolute value of the gap itself.
In our case, the gap for the 4TIC molecule is around 1.4 eV (see Appendix C), which effectively represents an upper bound to any gap with any acceptor molecule of any use for photovoltaics (with a lower LUMO energy than the one of 4TIC itself).
Displayed in red the 4mod BT (donor) and in blue the 4TIC (acceptor).
As expected, the HOMO is located on the donor (up) and the LUMO on the acceptor (down).
In both (extreme) cases the expected situation remains, with the HOMO (LUMO) of the complex being on donor (acceptor).
Colors for atoms as in Fig 3: red for 4mod BT (donor) and blue for 4TIC (acceptor).
In this work we have investigated the variation of the HOMO-LUMO band gap with varying packing of a 4mod BT-4TIC donor-acceptor molecule pair.
After developing suitable tools, an ab-initio random structure search has been employed for the purpose, obtaining 350 final configurations with different initial orientations and arrangements of the donor and the acceptor species.
A clearly favoured structure with an estimated binding energy of Ebmax=1.75±0.07 eV is found, in which an aliphatic chain of the donor aligns with part of the aromatic core of the acceptor, thereby physically separating the optically active parts of the molecules, as intended.
The change of the gap, i. e. the shifts of the HOMO on the donor and the LUMO on the acceptor due to each other’s weakly bound presence, is much less affected by the DFT gap problem than the absolute value of the gap itself.
The gap thus obtained represents effectively an upper bound for any HOMO-LUMO gap of any pair of molecules in which the HOMO is on the donor and the LUMO on the 4TIC acceptor.
AbstractSingle material organic solar cells (SMOSCs) are based on ambivalent materials containing electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) units capable to ensure the basic functions of light absorption, exciton dissociation, and charge transport.
SMOSCs are developed with various approaches, namely “double‐cable” polymers, block copolymers, oligomers, and molecules that differ by the donor platform: polymer or molecule, the nature of A, the D–A connection, and the intra‐ and intermolecular interactions of D and A.
Research on OPV was initiated in the mid‐seventies, in the wake of earlier basic research on the photovoltaic properties of organic conjugated systems.2, 3, 4 These first OPV cells basedon dyes or pigments which had not been specifically designed for PV conversion were poorly efficient with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of ≈0.01–0.10%.5 The fabrication of the first organic heterojunction by contacting an electron donor material (D) with an electron acceptor (A) by Tang in 1986 represents a milestone in OPV research.6 Due to the high electric field generated at the D/A interface, excitons diffusing to the interfacial zone are efficiently dissociated, allowing for the first time, the PCE to reach values close to 1.0%.6 Today, planar heterojunction (PHJ) cells essentially fabricated by vacuum deposition are still investigated for both technological and basic research and remain an invaluable tool for the screening of new active materials.7, 8, 9, 10, 11
PPV derivatives used in early work21, 22 were supplanted by poly(3‐hexylthiophene) (P3HT) which became a standard donor material,26 and more recently by new generations of low bandgap polymers.27, 28, 29 On the other hand, soluble derivatives of fullerenes C60 and C70, namely [6,6]‐phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) and PC71BM have been the standard acceptor materials for many years.23, 24, 25 Based on the advantages of reproducible synthesis, purification, and properties, soluble conjugated molecules have been proposed in 2006 as alternative donor materials to polymers.30, 31 In the past decade, the chemistry of molecular donors has rapidly expanded and hundreds of new molecules have been synthesized and evaluated.32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 Whereas the first examples of molecular donor such as thiophene or PPV oligomers or acenes possess a homogeneous electronic structure,38 molecular donors of second generation are based on combinations of D and A building blocks in order to create an internal charge transfer which at the same time improves the light‐harvesting properties of the material and increases the cell voltage.40 In recent years, several classes of donors of symmetrical structure, as exemplified in Scheme  1 , have led to BHJs with PCE comparable to those of the best polymer cells.36
Chemical structure of examples of highly efficient molecular donors (left side) and acceptors (right side).
Owing to high electron mobility and isotropic charge transport, fullerenes derivatives have become the standard acceptor materials for OPV.
Research on nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) was initiated some years ago,48 but in the past two years, the topic has evolved extremely fast and some NFAs based on A and D building blocks (Scheme 1) have reached performances surpassing those of fullerenes derivatives.43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51 The emergence of these new NFAs has also changed the vision of OPV cells by drawing more attention to the contribution of the acceptor to the absorption of incident light and to the process of hole transfer from A to D.52
In the past few years, research on polymer‐based SMOSCs has been focused on two types of materials, namely polymers or copolymers with pendant acceptor groups and “in‐chain” systems in which the acceptor is directly inserted in the polymer backbone.
The convergence of the development of BHJ solar cells with the emergence of the chemistry of fullerenes at the end of the nineties has led to the synthesis of conjugated polymers with fullerenes (essentially C60 derivatives) attached on the π‐conjugated backbone by flexible linkers.60, 61, 62, 63, 66 Cravino and Sariciftci have proposed the concept of “double‐cable” polymers in which the donor is constituted by a π‐conjugated polymer backbone which is expected to transport positive charges, while pendant C60 groups attached by a flexible spacer should ensure the transport of electrons.66 In fact, such a view appears as a bit simplistic since in a 3D material electrical charges do not necessarily follow these assigned tracks but are transported by a hopping mechanism between neighboring chains or mole‐cules.
The fabrication of SMOSCs based on block copolymers combining π‐conjugated blocks and nonfullerene acceptors has been reported by several groups.
Thus, Thelakkat and co‐workers have extensively investigated several types of donor–acceptor diblock polymers using nitroxide‐mediated polymerization.76, 77 They have shown that a copolymer based on P3HT as donor block and perylene bisimide (PBI) acrylate as acceptor (6) (Scheme  3 ) presents specific crystallization of the two domains, as confirmed by the observation of two melting points and by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images that revealed the presence of microphase‐separated domains.77
The quenching of the photoluminescence was consistent with a photoinduced electron transfer from P3HT to the PBI acceptor.
reported the synthesis of a highly crystalline D–A low bandgap polymer with oligothiophene–diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as the donor and PBI as the acceptor (8) using a DPP‐based macroinitiator and acryloyl‐based PBI.79 The degree of polymerization estimated from 1H NMR data was limited to 3–4 units.
The quenching of the photoluminescence of the DPP macroinitiator observed in the polymer was attributed to a photoinduced electron transfer from the donor block to the PBI acceptor.
Li and co‐workers have recently described the synthesis of conjugated polymers combining dithienylbenzodithiophene (DTBDT) as the donor block and dithienyl‐DPP bearing PBI units connected by alkyl linkers as the acceptor unit (9) (Scheme  4 ).80, 81 Three polymers with alkyl spacers of 6 and 12 carbons and DTBDT substituted by branched alkyl and alkylsulfanyl groups were synthesized.
These results confirm that the optimization of the linker is a crucial parameter that controls not only phase separation but also indirectly the packing arrangement of the donor and acceptor subcomponents.80 The authors have compared polymer 9c with a parent systems containing only one PBI unit on the DPP block.81 The results confirmed the higher PCE of the doubly substituted polymer 9c (2.74% vs 1.20% for the singly substituted polymer) in spite of a lower hole mobility for polymer 9c (μH = 1.4 × 10−2 vs 3.4 × 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1.81 More recently, the same group has reported the synthesis of another series of parent “double‐cable” polymers with poly(DTBDT) as supporting backbone and pendant PBI acceptor groups (10).82 The use of a linear π‐conjugated backbone of poly(DTBDT) was motivated by an expected improved crystallinity and nanophase separation.
The above discussed “double‐cable” polymers in which acceptor groups are connected via flexible linkers onto a main donor polymer backbone has been clearly inspired by the BHJ model.
Despite the large number of new copolymers synthesized, all SMOSCs based on these materials presented PCE inferior to 0.10%, leading to the conclusion that the introduction of solubilizing chains on the thiophene rings has a detrimental effect on phase segregation.86 More recently, the same group has investigated the effect of the mode of linkage of the D and A blocks in the same class of block copolymers.87 Thus, a new sample of 11 (P3HT–PTBTF) with MW of 20 kDa and a P3HT content of 70 wt% was compared to a parent system in which the P3HT donor block and the dithienyl benzothiadiazole acceptor block were connected by a fluorene unit (13).
have synthesized conjugated D–A block copolymers with carbazole donor units and dithienyl benzothiadiazole acceptor blocks (14) in order to investigate the effects of substitution of the two thienyl rings on phase separation and conversion efficiency.88 The semifluorinated octyl‐substituted dithienyl benzothiadiazole block was obtained by direct arylation which was reported as a crucial step for successful synthesis of the block.
Two types copolymers composed of quinoxaline–thiophene and naphthalene dicarboximide–selenophene blocks (16), in which the two blocks are connected either by direct conjugation (16a) or through a flexible 6‐carbon alkyl spacer (16b), were synthesized.90 The polymers present M n of 11.9 and 12.4 kDa and PDI of 2.22 and 2.12 for 16a and 16b, respectively.90 Gas phase chromatography (GPC) analyses indicated that both the polymers contain a 1:1 ratio of donor and acceptor blocks.
Taking advantage of the specific size, geometry, and electron acceptor properties of polyoxometalates, organic–inorganic copolymers containing various amounts of hexamolybdate clusters have been synthesized (17).91 Hexamolybdate clusters combine a spherical shape of dimensions close to those of C60 (diameter 0.8 vs 0.7 nm for C60) and a reduction potential close to that of C60.
A reference polymer devoid of hexamolybdate cluster (17a) was reported to give a PCE of 2.45% in BHJ cells with PC71BM as the acceptor and 3% of diiodooctane as the additive.
In this work, a wide bandgap donor block of DTBDT–thiophenecarboxylate is connected to a narrow bandgap naphthalenediimide–selenophene acceptor block in order to obtain a wide complementary absorption (18).92 The copolymer was synthesized by Stille coupling of oligomeric blocks of the D and A components.
Skabara and co‐workers have synthesized a D–A polymer combining a dithienyl‐DPP electron acceptor group and a fused thieno‐tetrathiafulvalene (TTTF) moiety as electron donor (19) (Scheme 5).
The introduction of the strong TTF donor in the structure was expected to improve hole transport.93, 94 The polymer was synthesized by Suzuki–Miyaura cross‐coupling of a dibromo‐TTTF and the diboronic ester of a dithienyl‐DPP.
BHJ cells were fabricated using PC71BM as the acceptor in a 1:4 ratio.
have synthesized block copolymers combining P3HT donor and PBI (20).95 The copolymers were purified by preparative GPC in order to remove the excess of P3HT and to reduce polydispersity.
To summarize, a large part of the work on SMOSCs has been devoted to “double‐cable” polymers with pendant fullerene acceptor groups.
The advantages of molecular donors versus polymers as active OPV materials have been extensively discussed in particular regarding the reproducibility of synthesis and purification and the analysis of structure–properties relationships.30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 96 In the specific case of SMOSCs, it seems clear that at such an early stage of research, molecular systems can significantly contribute to better understand the relevant structural factors and thus to progress toward the definition of synthetic principles for the design of active materials.
The same group has reported a bis‐terthienyl‐DPP donor system (3T‐DPP‐3T) with a grafted C70 unit (27).104 Comparison with the absorption spectrum of films of 3T‐DPP‐3T devoid of fullerene but with methyl and hexyl terminal groups suggests an absence of interaction between the donor and C60 in 27 in the ground state.
Whereas in dyads 21–28, only one C60 block is attached to the conjugated donor chain, Chen et al.
synthesized a 3T‐DPP‐3T donor with two C60 units attached at both nitrogen atoms of DPP via alkyl linkers of 3, 6, and 11 carbons (29a–c) (Scheme  8 ).106 The absorption spectra show a broadband extending from 250 to 800 nm with a maximum at 630 nm due to the internal charge transfer in the 3T‐DPP‐3T system.
In fact DPP‐based donor often presents low hole mobilities, while the PCE of this class of donor is extremely sensitive to small structural changes.107, 108 The authors have attributed the low PCE to the presence of the insulating alkyl spacers and to a decrease of the efficiency of charge‐separation due to the long distance between the donor and acceptor blocks.
On the other hand, the results obtained with conventional BHJ cells based on blends of compounds 29 and PC61BM confirm that these molecular donors lead to PCE significantly inferior to those of P3HT.106
have described donor–acceptor molecules in which PC61BM acceptor units are attached on an anthracene donor block substituted by hexylphenylethynyl groups (30).109 Two compounds containing one and two C60 units were synthesized using Sonogashira coupling.
have reported a dumbbell‐like A–D–A molecule with a dithienosilole‐dibenzothiadiazole donor unit with two fullerene C60 side groups (31).110 The UV–vis spectrum of the donor system presents the typical absorption of C60 together with a broad absorption band in the 450–650 region due to the conjugated donor chain.
have reported the synthesis of a different type of dumbbell molecule consisting of a conjugated block with a central DTBDT unit with two dioctyl terthienyl side blocks and two rodanine terminal acceptors moieties on which two PC61BM groups were linked by 6‐carbon alkyl spacers (32).111 This type of hybrid oligomeric conjugated structure had been previously used as molecular donor in highly efficient bicomponent BHJs.112, 113 The UV–vis spectrum of films of compound 32 presents a broad absorption band in the 300–700 nm region with a maximum at 557 nm in solution which represents a 20 nm hypsochromic shift compared to the donor system with two terminal hydroxyalkyl chains devoid of C60.
This blueshift and the attenuation of the 650 nm aggregation shoulder visible in the spectrum of the fullerene‐free molecule may reflect some hindrance to tight π‐stacking of the conjugated donor chains due to the steric effects of the terminal C60 groups.
Stability tests performed at 80 °C under inert atmosphere showed that a reference cell based on a blend of PC61BM with a donor analog to 32 but devoid of fullerene (32b) shows a decay of PCE to 80% of the initial value after 10 min, associated with large phase segregation, suggesting poor morphological stability.
In many cases, dyads with short in‐chain or through‐space D–A distances suffer from fast geminate recombination of photo‐generated charges.114 This problem can be circumvented by the insertion of insulating linkers between the donor and the fullerene unit, according to the BHJ model.
have synthesized a dyad composed of a dithiafulvalene‐functionalized bis(dithienyl)‐DPP‐fullerene as active material for SMOSCs (34).116 The introduction of a dithiafulvenyl group in the structure was motivated by an expected increase of donor effect and improved charge transport properties.
Under simulated solar light, the cell gives a J sc of 6.70 mA cm−2 and a PCE of 2.17% which ranks among the highest values reported for molecular dyads and the best PCE obtained with a dyad with direct connection of C60 on the donor.116 It is noteworthy that the FF value of 0.49 is much higher than for most of SMOSCs based on dyads reported so far, which suggests that the material presents good hole‐transport properties.
This result, which is in striking contrast with initial work on SMOSCs based on C60‐based dyads, suggests that the introduction of an electron withdrawing group in the structure of the donor unit contributes to separate the charges and to limit their recombination due to the increase of the dipole moment of the donor block.117
reported the synthesis of several extended D–A co‐oligomers combining substituted fluorene‐alt‐bithiophene as the donor block and PBI as the acceptor (35) (Scheme  10 ).118 These oligomers are smectic liquid crystals.
The solution spectra of compounds 37 are practically identical to that of 36c, indicating that even without alkyl spacer, the electronic interactions between the π‐conjugated donor chain and the PBI acceptor are negligible in 36c, probably because of a large twist angle around the connecting bond due to steric interactions.
On the other hand, all compounds 37 show higher electron mobilities than compound 36c, which suggests that decoupling PBI from the conjugated donor chain allows a better packing of the PBI units, in agreement with X‐ray diffraction results.
In order to extend the absorption of solar light toward longer wavelengths, the authors have introduced a dithienyl benzothiadiazole electron‐acceptor group in the conjugated system of compound 37b (38).
Such questions have a link with the problems posed by the use of highly dipolar D–A molecules as donor material in two‐component OPV cells.
A large part of SMOSCs fabricated with molecular donors has involved fullerene–donor dyads.
Besides simple D–L–A dyads (where L denotes a nonconjugating linker), other architectures such as A–L–D–L–A reminiscent of the structure of advanced molecular donors have been described.36 The introduction of acceptor units in such donors creates an internal charge transfer which probably contributes to limit charge recombination with the attached fullerene.
For historical reasons, “double‐cable” polymers with fullerene acceptors have been the most widely investigated model of active material for SMOSC and the PCE of 5.58% recently reported for a cell based on P3HT and C60 equals the best results obtained with two‐component cells.
Taking into account recent advances in SMOSC materials as well as progress in the synthesis of highly efficient molecular donors and acceptors, future research on the chemistry of SMOSC material could take into consideration the following points:1) Choice of D and A Blocks: From the beginning, the design active material for SMOSC has followed the state of the art of two‐component BHJ cells.
Thus, PPV derivatives have been replaced by P3HT and then by low bandgap polymers, whereas early molecular donor blocks of homogeneous structure such as conjugated oligomers or acenes have been recently replaced by hybrid donor systems with internal charge transfer (ICT).
Similarly, the C60‐based acceptors used in early SMOSCs have been progressively replaced by C70 derivatives and more recently by simple nonfullerene acceptors such as NDI and PBI.
The intense research effort invested in the synthesis of OPV materials in the past decade has generated a vast library of polymeric and molecular donors and acceptors which will allow the synthesis of many complementary D–A combinations with optimized coverage of the solar spectrum and controlled energy levels.
In particular, the new classes of highly efficient molecular donors and nonfullerene acceptors recently developed have not been used for the synthesis of SMOSC materials yet, and it can be expected that these advanced building blocks will have a strong impact on the development of SMOSCs in the near future.2) Charge‐Carrier Mobility: The optimization of the charge‐carrier mobility remains one of the key problems of the design of OPV materials.
Although this question has been discussed,12, 13, 127 work in this direction remains scarce.128, 129, 130 The introduction of polyether or cyanoalkyl groups in the donor structure has been shown to significantly increase the dielectric constant.128, 129, 130 Other possible strategies involve the increase of the dipole moment of D and/or A units,110 or the development of hyperbranched molecules.127 5) Connection of D and A: The linker L connecting D and A blocks is one of the major component of SMOSC materials.
Thus, PPV derivatives have been replaced by P3HT and then by low bandgap polymers, whereas early molecular donor blocks of homogeneous structure such as conjugated oligomers or acenes have been recently replaced by hybrid donor systems with internal charge transfer (ICT).
Similarly, the C60‐based acceptors used in early SMOSCs have been progressively replaced by C70 derivatives and more recently by simple nonfullerene acceptors such as NDI and PBI.
The intense research effort invested in the synthesis of OPV materials in the past decade has generated a vast library of polymeric and molecular donors and acceptors which will allow the synthesis of many complementary D–A combinations with optimized coverage of the solar spectrum and controlled energy levels.
In particular, the new classes of highly efficient molecular donors and nonfullerene acceptors recently developed have not been used for the synthesis of SMOSC materials yet, and it can be expected that these advanced building blocks will have a strong impact on the development of SMOSCs in the near future.
Although this question has been discussed,12, 13, 127 work in this direction remains scarce.128, 129, 130 The introduction of polyether or cyanoalkyl groups in the donor structure has been shown to significantly increase the dielectric constant.128, 129, 130 Other possible strategies involve the increase of the dipole moment of D and/or A units,110 or the development of hyperbranched molecules.127
Although many initial prototypes of SMOCS showed only modest efficiencies, advances in the synthesis of donor and acceptor materials for BHJs has contributed to spectacular progress with PCE now in the range 5.0%.
Therefore, we synthesized two IDTz-based electron acceptors in this research.
When they were blended with donor PTB7-Th to prepare OPV devices, the PTB7-Th:IDTz-BARO-based binary OPVs exhibited a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 0.37%, with a short-circuit current density (Jsc) of 1.24 mA cm−2, a fill factor (FF) of 33.99% and an open-circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.87 V. The PTB7-Th:IDTz-BARS-based binary OPVs exhibited PCE of 4.39%, with Jsc of 8.09 mA cm−2, FF of 54.13% and Voc of 1.00 V. The results show the strong electronegativity terminal group to be beneficial to the construction of high-performance OPV devices.
Highlights: (1) Two new acceptors based on 5,5′-(4,4,9,9-tetrakis (4-hexylphenyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′] dithiophene-2,7-diyl) dithiazole (IDTz) and different end groups (BARS, BARO) were synthesized; (2) BARS and BARO are electron-rich end groups, and the electron acceptors involved in the construction show excellent photoelectric properties.
They can properly match the donor PTB7-Th, and show the appropriate surface morphology of the active layer in this work; (3) Compared with IDTz-BARO, IDTz-BARS has deeper LUMO and HOMO energy levels.
Over the years, from the ITIC structure [6] and their derivatives [7,8,9] to Y6 [10] and Y6 derivatives [11,12,13], the narrow band gap non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) were found to have excellent OPV device performance [14,15,16], with the result that the maximum efficiency of organic solar cells constantly updated.
At present, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPV devices based on Y6 derivatives as the acceptor has exceeded 17% [17,18], which exhibits promising prospects for industrialization.
High-performance OPV devices mainly come from molecular acceptors with high charge transport mobility, which are usually small molecular acceptors with high conjugation planes [19,20].
In recent years, non-fullerene electron acceptors have been continuously developed to improve the device efficiency of OPVs to satisfactory performance [14].
[22] proposed the concept of conformational lock, in which a non-covalent bond was introduced into the acceptors of organic solar cells for the first time.
This method promoted the synthesis of high-performance planar-conjugated electron acceptors [23,24].
[25] reported that 4,9-dihydro-sindaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′]-dithiophene (IDT) was the core structural unit, and F-substituted benzothiadiazole was the electron acceptor of the bridging unit.
A variety of NoCLs have gradually become some of the principal ways to construct electron acceptors [34].
Specifically, in the work of Huang et al., the carbon atom in the original molecule was replaced with a nitrogen atom, resulting in a thiazole unit that induces N-S non-covalent conformation lock, with the goal of obtaining high-performance electron acceptors.
Compared with Zhan et al.’s work in 2015 [6], Huang et al.’s work in 2017 [24] replaced the thiophene unit in IDT-T with thiazole, designed and synthesized the non-fullerene small-molecule acceptor IDT-Tz, and improved the device performance from 4.1% to 8.4% after mixing with donor PTB7-Th.
Therefore, in this research, we employed this non-covalent construction method to develop new narrow-band-gap, non-fullerene electron acceptors to further expand the device performance of OPVs.
The electron acceptor IDTz, based on IDT core and thiazole, achieved 8.4% PCE when PTB7-Th was used as the electron donor, which is higher than the device performance of an electron acceptor based on IDT core and thiophene.
However, the ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (UV-Vis) absorption peaks of IDTz-based electron acceptors 2,2′-((2Z,2′Z)-(((4,4,9,9-tetrakis (4-hexylphenyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′] dithiophene-2,7-diyl) bis (thiazole-2,5-diyl)) bis (methaneylylidene)) bis (3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene)) dimalononitrile (IDT-Tz) and 2-((E)-5-((2-(7-(5-((E)-((Z)-2-(cyano (isocyano) methylene)-3-ethyl-4-oxothiazolidin-5-ylidene) methyl) thiazol-2-yl)-4,4,9,9-tetrakis (4-hexylphenyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophen-2-yl) thiazol-5-yl) methylene)-3-ethyl-4-oxothiazolidin-2-ylidene) malononitrile (IDTzCR) in solution were 649 and 603 nm, respectively, lower than that of ITIC (664 nm).
In this work, we synthesized two A-π-D-π-A non-fullerene small-molecule acceptors, in which IDT was used as a D unit and thiazole as a π bridge unit.
We synthesized a series of OPV electron acceptors IDTz-BARS and IDTz-BARO with IDTz and different end groups.
The acceptors were mixed with donor PTB7-Th to prepare OPVs.
We anticipate that a satisfactory electron acceptor structure can be constructed through appropriate end group building blocks to obtain wider spectral absorption and a narrower optical bandgap (Egopt).
The two chemical structures and synthetic routes of the new acceptors IDTz-BARS and IDTz-BARO are shown in Scheme 1.
Compared with IDTz-BARO, the energy level of IDTz-BARS indicates that it may be a high-performance electron acceptor.
The stability of the acceptor was determined by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) in N2, where the weight loss of the semiconductor was 5%.
The CV curves of IDTz-based acceptor are exhibited in Figure 1b.
Meanwhile, the appropriate LUMO level of the acceptor can bring enough exciton dissociation to the device, when cooperating with the donor, to obtain high device performance.
As it is generally acknowledged that FMO energy levels of acceptor material are related to device performance, differences between the two acceptors were thus expected once embedded in active layers.
In addition, the HOMO and LUMO levels of IDTz-BARS may be more easily combined with the donor material PTB7-Th (−4.86 eV and −3.62 eV) than that of IDTz-BARO and IDTz-BARS, ensuring effective exciton decomposition.
In order to study the performance of materials in OPV devices, PTB7-Th was used as a donor, and the IDTz-BARS and IDTz-BARO were used as acceptors.
The device structure was ITO/ZnO/donor (PTB7-Th):acceptor (IDTz-BARO or IDTz-BARS)/MoO3/Ag, and the inverted device structure was prepared with 1,2-dichlorobenzene (CB) as solvent.
The BARO end group reduces the LUMO level of the acceptor, so the electron acceptor with higher electronegativity shows the lowest Voc in this work.
Compared with IDTz-BARS, IDTz-BARO had more blue-shifted spectral absorption, so that the Jsc of OPVs with IDTz-BARO as the acceptor was smaller than that of IDTz-BARS as the acceptor.
The AFM height images of PTB7-Th:acceptors are shown in Figure 5 (test area: 2.5 × 2.5 μm2), and the root mean square (RMS) roughness values of PTB7-Th:IDTz-BARO and PTB7-Th:IDTz-BARS were 0.79 nm and 1.50 nm, respectively.
Due to the introduction of S⋯N non-covalent conformation lock and thiazole as a π bridge, two IDTz-based non-fullerene acceptors were synthesized in this research.
IDTz-BARS had more red-shifted spectral absorption, a smaller energy gap and better film morphology, demonstrating a photoelectric conversion efficiency of 4.39% when cooperating with the donor PTB7-Th.
Meanwhile, the two electron acceptors we synthesized have effective solubility and are easy to process in solution.
The results show that the addition of two terminal groups without strong electron-withdrawing groups could also construct suitable electron acceptors.
This work provides a promising strategy for the design of non-fullerene acceptors in non-covalent intramolecular conformational locks.
In these devices, the maximum power conversion efficiencies (7–10%) are achieved by using a heterojunction (BHJ) in which both electron donor and acceptor materials are blended together as the active layer.1−5 In OPVs, excitons are generated following light absorption and then diffuse to the interface between donor and acceptor, where charge separation occurs.
An elegant way of exploring the influence of degree of crystallinity on the physical properties is to use a blend of copolymers to vary the degree of order in the film.33,36,37,41 Here, we investigated two anthracene containing poly(p-phenylene-ethynylene)-alt-poly(p-phenylene-vinylene) (PPE–PPV) copolymers (AnE-PPV) (molecular structures given in Figure 1a and b) that are used as donor materials for solar cell applications.36,42 The two polymers have the same conjugated backbone but differ in the number and position of branched side chains.
How does the polymer’s ability to crystallize influence the distribution of acceptor in the blend?
The values of rq = (0.9 ± 0.2) nm and rq = (0.8 ± 0.2) nm are calculated from spectral overlap between donor and acceptor for amorphous and semicrystalline polymer respectively assuming the quenching mechanism is due to resonance energy transfer from donor to acceptor (details about the calculation are given in Supporting Information).
As fluorescence in the mixed blends was coming predominantly from the semicrystalline polymer (Figure 1d), we used time-resolved fluorescence to probe the excitation energy transfer (EET) in mixed blends of amorphous and semicrystalline polymer (in the absence of fullerene acceptor).
Hence, the excitons in the amorphous regions are more likely to encounter electron acceptors due to the superior mixing of the two components in these regions.
However, analytical methods for BHJ layer microstructures are limited because BHJ films are composed of a complex mixture of donor and acceptor materials.
In our previous study on the microstructure of a BHJ film composed of donor polymers and fullerene-based acceptors, we analyzed donor polymer-only films after selectively extracting fullerene-based acceptors from the film by atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Not only was AFM suitable for a clear analysis of the morphology of the donor polymers in the BHJ film, but it also allowed us to approximate the acceptor morphology by analyzing the pores in the extracted films.
Herein we report a method for the selective extraction of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) from a BHJ layer in OSCs and provide a detailed analysis of the remaining BHJ films based upon AFM.
We found that butyl glycidyl ether is an effective solvent to extract NFAs from BHJ films without damaging the donor polymer films.
The results may be useful for the optimization of BHJ film structures composed of NFAs and donor polymers.
One of the important breakthroughs that has contributed to the improvement of PCEs is the utilization of a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) structure composed of mixed donor polymers and small molecular acceptors as the active layer of OSCs, which can achieve a large donor-acceptor interface area to generate a high photocurrent (Figure 1a) [8,9,10].
The key to improving photovoltaic performance is to develop a BHJ film with as large a donor-acceptor interface area as possible, thereby establishing pathways for electron and hole carrier transport to the upper and lower electrodes [11,12,13].
To study the BHJ layer microstructure, the selective extraction method [14,15] has been adopted, by which donor polymer-only films are obtained after the extraction of small molecular acceptors from the donor/acceptor blend films (Figure 1b).
Using this method, the morphology of donor materials in BHJ films can be easily observed by atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Moreover, we have approximated the morphology of acceptor materials by analyzing the pores in the extracted films [14].
We found that the selective extraction method of fullerene-based acceptors and subsequent AFM observations are effective for the detailed analysis of BHJ films and yield useful knowledge regarding BHJ films composed of fullerene-based acceptors.
On the other hand, recently developed OSCs with high PCEs are composed of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) [16,17,18] and donor polymers with benzodithiophene units [19,20,21].
In this paper, we describe the AFM analysis of the microstructures of BHJ layers composed of NFAs (EH-IDTBR [22,23] and ITIC [24,25], Figure 1c) and donor polymers with a benzodithiophene unit (PTB7 [26,27] and PBDB-T [28,29], Figure 1d) after removing the NFAs by the selective extraction method.
We examined utility of various organic solvents in the selective extraction method of the above materials by using donor/NFA blend films (donor/acceptor weight ratio is 1:1).
We used [(5Z,5′Z)-5,5′-{[(4,4,9,9-tetra(2-ethylhexyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’]dithiophene-2,7-diyl)bis(benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole-7,4-diyl)]bis(methanylylidene)}bis(3-ethyl-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one)] (EH-IDTBR) and 3,9-bis[2-methylene-{3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone}]-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d’]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’]dithiophene (ITIC), representative nonfullerene acceptors with good solubility, and poly[4,8-bis((2-ethylhexyl)oxy)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-2-((2-ethylhexyl)oxycarbonyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene-4,6-diyl (PTB7) and poly[(2,6-{4,8-bis[5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene})-alt-{5,5-[1´,3´-di(thiophen-2-yl)-5´,7´-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1´,2´-c:4´,5´-c´]dithiophene-4´,8´-dione]}] (PBDB-T), donor materials which are widely used for OSC devices, zinc acetylacetonate hydrate (99.995%, trace metals basis) as a precursor for the electron transporting layer film, and poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(4-styrene sulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) (Clevios P) as a material for hole transporting layer.
A donor/acceptor mixed chlorobenzene solution (18 mg mL−1) was spin-coated onto the glass/ITO/ZnO films.
The acceptor material was extracted from the BHJ layer by slowly dropping organic solvent onto the layer and keeping the organic solvent on the layer for several minutes.
To apply the selective extraction method and the subsequent AFM observation to OSCs based on NFAs and donor polymers, we first tested various organic solvents, such as n-hexane, N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), tetrahydrofuran (THF), dichloromethane (DCM), diethyl ether (Et2O), butyl glycidyl ether (BGE), toluene, and pyridine, for their ability to selectively extract EH-IDTBR from donor/acceptor blend films composed of EH-IDTBR and PTB7 ((weight of donor: D)/(total weight: D + A) = 0.50).
Our previous study indicated that BGE is an effective solvent for extracting fullerene-based acceptors from BHJ films [14].
From these results, we can say that BGE is a useful solvent for selectively extracting not only fullerene acceptors, but also NFAs from BHJ films.
Then, the acceptor materials were extracted from the BHJ layers using BGE.
The pore size, which is related to the segregates of the extracted acceptors, of the BGE-extracted films was also different; the pore size of the BGE-extracted PTB7:EH-IDTBR-based films was 48.1 nm and that of the BGE-extracted PTB7:ITIC-based ones was 81.6 nm.
This indicates that the donor-acceptor interface area was larger in the PTB7:EH-IDTBR-based BHJ films than the PTB7:ITIC-based ones.
One of the general methods for the optimization of OSCs is the optimization of donor/acceptor weight (D/(D + A)) ratio in a mixed solution for BHJ film fabrication, which can affect the morphology of the BHJ films and the resulting photovoltaic properties.
As shown in Figure 5 and Table 1, OSCs with excess amounts of donor or acceptor materials (D/(D + A) = 0.20 and 0.60) have low JSC and PCE values (PCE: <4.0%), and OSCs with D/(D + A) ratios of 0.33 and 0.40 have good photovoltaic properties (PCE: 4.6–4.7%).
For BHJ0.20-based OSCs, the photocurrent was much lower than the ideal case due to the large grains/pore sizes of donor-acceptor materials.
This could originate in the larger grain/pore radius than the exciton diffusion length of NFAs (for EH-IDTBR: 10–20 nm, for ITIC: 20–30 nm) [32] and donor polymers [33].
Although these grain/pore radii are larger than the diffusion length, the suitable grain/pore size should be determined by a balance of carrier transport path and donor-acceptor interface area.
In this paper, we reported the application of the selective extraction method to OSCs based on NFA and a state-of-the-art donor polymer with benzodithiophene units.
Here, the authors propose a method for exploring the effect of donor/acceptor interface microstructure on charge transfer state characteristics and device performance.
A charge-transfer (CT) state at a donor–acceptor (D–A) interface in an organic photovoltaic (OPV) device is an intermediate state present after a charge transfer transition in which the electron (on the acceptor) and the hole (on the donor) reside on either side of the interface1–6.
We test our model using two series of poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT): non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) blends as a function of NFA content, in which we observe the presence of two distinct CT-state features that we assign to the presence of semi-crystalline and amorphous phases of P3HT.
Figure 1a, b illustrates a general energetic distribution of CT states, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\left({E}_{{\rm{CT}}}\right)$$\end{document}ECT, that might result at a D–A heterointerface in which a donor domain is surrounded by acceptor domains of different sizes and strength of interaction with the donor25.
1Illustration of mixed D–A interfaces, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g({E}_{{\rm{CT}}})$$\end{document}g(ECT) distribution, absorption and recombination mechanism.a Mixed D–A interfaces are displayed as a donor domain (orange) surrounded by different sizes and distances of acceptor domains (blue) on the left, resulting in b a random energetic distribution of \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g\left({E}_{{\rm{CT}}}\right)$$\end{document}gECT with multiple sub-CT manifolds.
a Mixed D–A interfaces are displayed as a donor domain (orange) surrounded by different sizes and distances of acceptor domains (blue) on the left, resulting in b a random energetic distribution of \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g\left({E}_{{\rm{CT}}}\right)$$\end{document}gECT with multiple sub-CT manifolds.
Focusing first on the EQE edges, we can identify clear CT-state absorption in all the blends, as it can be clearly differentiated from the singlet absorption of the pristine donor and acceptor, as displayed in Figs.
This constant CT1 peak position upon increasing injection is consistent with a narrow distribution of CT-state energies at the interface between semi-crystalline donor and acceptor phases.
Such a loss in CT-state brightness can be expected from the enlargement of the pure donor and acceptor domains8,26.
We demonstrated that static disorder tends to increase voltage losses in OPV devices, as previously reported, and that it is indeed important in certain well-studied polymer: molecular acceptor material systems, in agreement with ref.
Several recent studies reporting the relative insignificance of static disorder in CT-state energies in organic blends focussed on dilute dispersion of donor molecules in a fullerene matrix14,16,18.
In contrast, the conjugated polymer:molecular acceptor blends commonly used for high-performance OPV bring several sources of energetic disorder not found in the dilute small molecule blends, namely, the large conformational—and therefore energetic —phase space of conjugated polymers, the electronic anisotropy in both components and the sizeable volume fractions that permit aggregation of both components.
2012, 51, 11306–11314] in which the optoelectronic properties were improved with an acceptor bearing heteroaromatic rings.
Herein, we have designed four novel Y-series non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) by end-capped acceptor modifications of a recently synthesized 15% efficient Y21 molecule for better optoelectronic properties and their potential use in solar cell applications.
In addition, the PM6:YA1 complex is also studied to understand the charge shifting from the donor polymer PM6 to the NFA blend.
Results of all parameters suggest that the DA’D electron-deficient core and effective end-capped acceptors in YA1–YA4 molecules form a perfect combination for effective tuning of optoelectronic properties by lowering frontier molecular orbital (FMO) energy levels, reorganization energy, and binding energy and increasing the absorption maximum and open-circuit voltage values in selected molecules (YA1–YA4).
The combination of extended conjugation and excellent electron-withdrawing capability of the end-capped acceptor moiety in YA1 makes YA1 an excellent organic solar cell (OSC) candidate owing to promising photovoltaic properties including the lowest energy gap (1.924 eV), smallest electron mobility (λe = 0.0073 eV) and hole mobility (λh = 0.0083 eV), highest λmax values (783.36 nm (in gas) and 715.20 nm (in chloroform) with lowest transition energy values (Ex) of 1.58 and 1.73 eV, respectively), and fine open-circuit voltage (Voc = 1.17 V) with respect to HOMOPM6–LUMOacceptor.
Fullerene-based derivatives played a very dominant role as electron acceptors in the past.
Over the past years, Y-series non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), i.e., Y6, have crossed the power conversion efficiency barrier of 17%.12−16 Currently, Y-series NFAs in association with the A–D-A’D–A configuration make a perfect combination.
In this unique combination, an electron-accepting end-capped group (A), a ladder-type central fused core (DA’D), and two sp2-hybridized nitrogen atoms in the pyrrole ring give a perfect C2 symmetrical geometry.17−19 Thus, structural tailoring by chemical modifications of either the alkyl side chain or terminal acceptor units can be made in Y-series NFAs to gain promising optoelectronic properties.
A new asymmetric Y-series Y21 fullerene-free acceptor consisting of the 3-(dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (fluorinated IC), 5,11,12-tris(2-ethylhexyl)-8-hexyl-11,12-dihydro-5H-thieno[2′,3′:4,5]pyrrolo-[3,2-g]-thieno[2′,3′:4,5]thieno[3,2-b][1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-e]-indole group with 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2) was reported recently.24Y21 was proven to be very beneficial in terms of cost and also exhibited high efficiency compared to other Y-series NFAs.
Thus, all of these features motivated us to design new Y-series non-fullerene acceptors with better photovoltaic and photophysical properties as compared to existing ones.
In the current investigation, end-capped acceptor modifications of the Y21 (referred to as R in this article)24 molecule have been made with A1–A4 end-capped acceptor moieties (as shown in Scheme 1).
Different key parameters like frontier molecular orbital analysis (FMOs), binding energy along with transition matrix density (TDM), absorption maxima in the solvent and gas phase, excitation energy, reorganizational energy of holes and electrons, and open-circuit voltage and charge transfer analysis of Y-series NFAs with the PM6 donor complex have been performed (as shown in Figure 1) and compared with those of the reference molecule (Y21).
New “Y-series”-based near-infrared-sensitive non-fullerene acceptor.
In the present article, the end-capped acceptor modifications of the Y21(24) molecule have been done with different efficiency end-capped acceptors A1–A4 as shown in Scheme 1.
Y21 (reference molecule) consists of a six-membered asymmetric fused-ring core based on benzotriazole flanked with thiophene and the alkylated thieno[3,2-b]thiophene unit (DA’D) and 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile as the acceptor group.
In our study, we replaced the acceptor unit with 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile (YA1), methyl 6-cyano-1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5-carboxylate (YA2), 2-(5,6-dichloro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (YA3), and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-6-(trifluoromethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (YA4) to examine the enhancement in photovoltaic and electronic properties of reference molecules after such key modifications.
Among all designed molecules, YA1 showed the lowest HOMO–LUMO energy gap value, and this might be due to the efficient end-capped 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile acceptor moiety.
Similarly, YA2 showed the second-lowest HOMO–LUMO energy gap value, and this is due to the high electron-withdrawing potential of the additional functional group (−COOCH3) present in the acceptor unit of YA2.
YA3 and YA4 exhibited approximately similar HOMO–LUMO energy gaps with minute difference but still narrow as compared to the reference molecule, and this might be due to addition of 2-(5,6-dichloro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-6-(trifluoromethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile as acceptor moieties, respectively.
The introduction of fluorine in the C–F bond or B–F bond is usually beneficial to the band gap.44−52 The efficiency and effect of the C–F bond of CF3 atoms present in end-capped acceptor YA4 for reduction in the energy gap are proved to be better than those of the reference (R) end-capped acceptor but lower than those of YA1, YA2, and YA3 end-capped acceptors.
It is evident from Figure 6 that the HOMO density in the reference molecule is only oriented on the DA’D core, while the LUMO density is located majorly on acceptor units and minor LUMO density is spotted on the DA’D core.
In designed molecules YA1–YA4, a similar distribution pattern of HOMO density (only present on the DA’D core) and LUMO density (majorly present on acceptor units and minor amount is located on the DA’D core) is noted.
The distribution pattern of HOMO and LUMO densities confirmed that our modifications efficiently withdrew the electron density from the donor end and ultimately enhanced the resultant photovoltaic and electronic properties of organic solar cells.
Among the designed molecules, the highest red-shifting is noted in the case of YA1 (λmax = 783.36 nm), and it might be due to the (dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile acceptor moiety.
The second-highest red-shifting in the absorption spectrum is noted for YA2 (λmax = 769.31 nm), and this is due to addition of an efficient functional group in the end-capped acceptor moiety.
The difference in absorption maximum values clearly elaborates the effect of solvent, i.e., higher values of absorption maxima in the solvent (chloroform) phase suggested that solubility of acceptor materials occurs at a high rate in the solvent phase (as compared to the gas phase).
Among all of the molecules, YA1 (λe = 0.0073) has the lowest value of λe, which shows that S4 has the highest electron transport ability from the donor to the acceptor group.
Results of reorganizational energy confirmed that our novel designed Y-series non-fullerene acceptors are suitable candidates for high-efficiency organic solar cells.
Generally, HOMO of the donor material is scaled with LUMO of the acceptor molecule, and difference in both energy orbitals is taken as the total open-circuit voltage.
For a large value of open-circuit voltage, HOMO of the donor material should be lower, while LUMO of the acceptor material should be higher for maximum shifting of charge.
In our article, we have taken PM6 as the donor material against our acceptor molecules (R and YA1–YA4).
PM6 is a well-known donor material and frequently used as a donor material in the past.
Moreover, it is generally used as a donor polymer.
Voc of studied acceptor molecules with respect to the PM6 donor polymer.
It also gives useful information about the performance of acceptor materials in OSCs.
The B3LYP method along with the 6-31G(d,p) basis set is considered for understanding all transitions with acceptor molecules.
Here, for simplification purposes, we divide our molecules into two parts, i.e., the DA’D core (C) and acceptor unit (A).
From TDM plots, it is evident that electron charge density is majorly present on the end-capped acceptor and DA’D core.
Thus, the presence of charge density majorly on acceptor units is solid evidence of efficient end-capped acceptor moieties, which efficiently withdraw the electron density.
The above discussion of TDM plots confirmed that end-capped acceptors efficiently withdraw the electron density and ultimately enhance the PEC (Power Conversion Efficiency) of fullerene-free OSCs.
The study of the PM6:YA1 complex is done to ensure the charge transfer between the donor polymer (PM6) and acceptor molecule YA1.
Figure 11 represents the complex of the donor and the acceptor material.
PM6 is a well-known and frequently used polymer, and in experimental section, it is also used as a donor polymer.24 Similarly, YA1 is the best acceptor molecule among all designed molecules owing to its narrow HOMO–LUMO energy gap, low excitation energy, low binding energy, good electron and hole reorganization energy, and red-shifting in the absorption spectrum.
The electronic transition of the PM6:YA1 complex is majorly fluctuated with the orientation of the acceptor and donor molecules.
The computed direction of the dipole moment at the B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) basis set is oriented from the donor polymer to the acceptor unit, which is a clear indication of charge transfer.
Figure 12 illustrates that HOMO density is present on donor polymer PM6 and LUMO density is located on the YA1 acceptor molecule.
This orbital diagram is solid evidence for transfer of charge from excited HOMO of the donor polymer to LUMO.
Therefore, designed molecules have been proved as satisfactory acceptor candidates for future designing of efficient organic solar cells.
Distribution patterns of HOMO and LUMO of PM6 (donor) and YA1 (acceptor).
Thus, end-capped acceptor modifications in our designed molecules YA1–YA4 cause 0.11 eV reduction in the HOMO–LUMO energy gap (in the range of 1.92–2.02 eV) as compared to reference Y21 (Eg = 2.03 eV).
The open-circuit voltages (Voc) of YA1–YA4 with respect to HOMOPM6–LUMOacceptor are found to be efficient.
The PM6:YA1 blend study demonstrated excellent charge transfer between the donor polymer (PM6) and the acceptor molecule.
The combination of extended conjugation and excellent electron-withdrawing capability of the end-capped acceptor moiety makes YA1 an excellent OSC candidate among all studied molecules as a consequence of promising photovoltaic properties including the lowest energy gap (1.924 eV), smallest electron mobility (λe = 0.0073 eV) and hole mobility (λh 0.0083 eV), highest λmax values (783.36 nm in gas and 715.20 nm in chloroform) with lowest transition energy values (Ex) (1.58 and 1.73 eV, respectively), and fine open-circuit voltage (Voc = 1.17 V) with respect to HOMOPM6–LUMOacceptor.
Our results suggest that the selected molecules are fine acceptor materials and can be used as electron and/or hole transport materials with excellent photovoltaic properties for OSCs.
In recent years, small molecular acceptors (SMAs) have extensively promoted the progress of organic solar cells (OSCs).
In recent years, small-molecule acceptors (SMAs) significantly promote the development of OSCs and improve the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs [8,9,10,11,12].
reported the synthesis of acceptors SMA1 by the direct arylation coupling reaction [33].
After bromination, the intermediate compound 4 further reacted with fluorene diboronic ester (5) through Suzuki coupling to afford the final acceptor SMA1 in 70% yield.
OSCs employing SMA1 as an acceptor and poly (3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as a donor showed a PCE of 2.37% with an open circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.97 V, a short circuit current density (Jsc) of 6.25 mA cm−2, and a fill factor (FF) of 0.39.
In 2017, an unsymmetrical acceptor SMA2, consisting of N-annulated perylene diimide (PDI) (6), thienyl DPP (7), and indoloquinoxaline (9) units to enable panchromatic absorption, was synthesized by two-step direct arylation coupling reactions (Figure 2) [34].
Moreover, the following direct arylation coupling reaction was performed between 8 and 9 in the same condition but higher reaction temperature of 90 °C to form the acceptor SMA2 with a satisfactory yield (85%).
However, OSCs taking SMA2 as the acceptor and P3HT as the donor showed a relatively low PCE of 0.81%.
Then, a series of symmetrical acceptors SMA3–SMA9 flanked by N-annulated PDI were further prepared [35,36,37,38,39].
Chemical structures and synthetic routes of the acceptors SMA3–SMA9 are shown in Figure 3.
The lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels of the acceptors were relatively high, which was beneficial to obtain the high Voc of the corresponding OSCs.
As a result, the Voc of the OSCs using PTB7-Th as the donor and SMA3 and SMA4 as the acceptor reached 0.99 V and 1.05 V, respectively.
However, due to the lack of tendency for the acceptors to form crystalline domains, the blend films using SMA3 and SMA4 as acceptors and PTB7-Th as donors presented poor morphology, which resulted in low Jsc and low fill factors for the corresponding OSCs.
Thus, a bithiophene derivative dithienophosphole oxide (12) was exploited as the central core to synthesize the new acceptor SMA5 (Figure 3) [36].
As a result, using PTB7-Th as a donor, OSCs based on PTB7-Th:SMA5 showed a slightly decreased Voc (0.99 V) than that of SMA4 (1.05 V).
Nevertheless, all SMA5-based devices using different electron donors, including PTB7-Th, PBDB-T, and PDTT-BOBT, presented high Voc in the range of approximately 1.0~1.1 V, paving the way for the further design of SMAs for OSCs with high Voc.
To expand the design strategy of N-annulated PDI-flanked acceptors and obtain high photovoltaic performance based on the molecular skeleton of SMA4, new acceptor molecules SMA6, SMA7, and SMA8, were prepared by incorporating isoindigo, thienoisoindigo, and DPP in the middle of bithiophene as shown in Figure 3 [37].
Moreover, these acceptors were prepared from N-annulated PDI monobromide 6 and bisthiophene-substituted counterparts (13, 14, and 15) by direct arylation reaction in the presence of SiliaCat® DPP-Pd, K2CO3, and PivOH in DMAc and the target products were isolated in appreciable yields of 67%, 61%, and 74% for SMA6, SMA7, and SMA8, respectively.
PTB7-Th was used as an electron donor to evaluate the influence of the different dye cores on the photovoltaic performance of these acceptors.
This result indicated that thiophene-DPP was the superior bridge in this series of N-annulated PDI-flanked acceptors.
At the same time, the DPP-embedded acceptor SMA8 was proved to be sufficiently amenable to the SiliaCats® DPP-Pd catalyzed direct arylation coupling reaction, and it could be prepared with the highest yield.
To meet the demands of widespread use and large-area OSC devices, a scale-up synthesis of SMA9 was carried out, and a screening of benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT)-based donor polymers was investigated [39].
To the best of our knowledge, this was the largest scale-up synthesis of the acceptor materials by direct arylation reaction.
The resulting SMA9 was paired with different BDT-based donor polymers, i.e., PTB7-Th, TTFQx-T1, PBDB-T, and J61, to construct OSCs, and PCE of the OSCs was in the range of 2.3–5.7%, as shown in Table 1.
In 2018, the SiliaCats® DPP-Pd catalyzed direct arylation reaction was extended to synthesize an indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT) linked N-annulated PDI acceptor [40].
OSCs taking the polymer PTB7-Th as a donor and SMA11 as an acceptor were fabricated to study the photovoltaic performances.
Using J52-F as the electron donor, the PCE reached 9.04%, 5.61%, and 11.27%, for SMA12-, SMA13-, and SMA14-based OSCs, respectively.
Later, this protocol was further applied to prepare the similar A-D-A type acceptors SMA15 and SMA16 with various electron-donating cores, as shown in Figure 6.
By direct arylation coupling and Knoevenagel condensation, non-fused ring electron acceptors SMA17–SMA19 were readily prepared (Figure 7) [46].
Employing PBDB-TF (PM6) as an electron donor, the PCE of OSCs taking SMA17, SMA18, and SMA19 as the acceptors were 4.08%, 10.27%, and 6.62%, respectively.
In the same year, electron-withdrawing building blocks benzobis(thiazole) with quinoid-resonance effect were employed as the core to construct non-fused acceptors SMA20 and SMA21, as shown in Figure 8 [47].
The dialdehyde intermediate was treated with 35 or 2-(6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)malononitrile (39) with the catalyst of pyridine to afford the target acceptors SMA20 and SMA21, in yields of 72% and 73%, respectively.
Using PBDB-T as the electron donor, SMA20 and SMA21-based OSCs exhibited high PCE of 11.50% and 10.17% with high Jsc of 21.80 mA cm−2 and 17.97 mA cm−2, respectively.
Recently, the direct arylation coupling between CPDT carboxaldehyde (37) and electron-deficient benzo-2,1,3-thiadiozole (BT) and BTA derivatives (40, 41, and 42) was carried out to prepare the intermediates of non-fused ring acceptors SMA22–SMA25, as shown in Figure 9 [48,49].
Then, the dialdehyde compounds were subject to Knoevenagel condensation with 1,1-dicyanomethylene-3-indanone (46) and its dichloride (47) to obtain the acceptors SMA22–SMA25 in yield of 83% to 90%.
The photovoltaic properties of the acceptors were evaluated in solar cells by employing PBDB-T, PBDB-T-2Cl, and PM6 as the electron donors.
Similar non-fused ring acceptors SMA26 and SMA27 were prepared using benzodithiophenedione (BDD) core with 2-ethylhexyl or 2-butyloctyl side chains, respectively (Figure 10) [50].
Using PM6 as the electron donor, the OSCs based on SMA26 afforded a high PCE of 12.59% with an excellent Jsc of 22.57 mA cm−2, a Voc of 0.88 V, and an FF of 63.38%.
Through the Vilsmeier-Haack reaction and Knoevenagel condensation, the acceptors SMA28–SMA31 were produced in reasonable yields (Figure 11).
Subsequently, PBDB-T was used as the donor to evaluate the photovoltaic properties of the acceptors.
After formylation, the dialdehyde intermediates reacted with electron-deficient end unit 35 to produce the target A-Linker-A type acceptors SMA32–SMA37 (Figure 12).
The photovoltaic performance of these acceptors was evaluated by the OSCs cooperating with PM6 as the donor to investigate the influence of the π-conjugation length of the oligomeric cores.
Longer linkers sharply decreased the PCE of the acceptors to below 5% (i.e., 1.09%, 0.23%, 4.75%, and 1.43% for SMA33, SMA34, SMA36, and SMA37, respectively).
This result indicated that an overlong linker weakened the D–A electron interactions and decreased the driving force for charge transfer, thus degrading the photovoltaic property of the corresponding acceptors.
Until now, the studies on the synthesis of electron acceptors using direct arylation coupling have remained relatively limited.
Because of the complicated synthesis process of highly efficient SMAs, there is no report focusing on the preparation of fused ring A-DA’D-A type acceptors by direct arylation coupling.
A molecular design is presented for tailoring the energy levels in D-π-A organic dyes through fluorination of their acceptor units, which is aimed at achieving efficient dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs).
This is achieved by exploiting the chemical structure of common D-π-A organic dyes and incorporating one or two fluorine atoms at the ortho-positions of the cyanoacetic acid as additional acceptor units.
Furthermore, it is typically easier to design and modify the molecular structure of organic dyes formed with a donor-π bridge-acceptor (D-π-A) configuration, at least as far as the tuning of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels is concerned13141516171819.
To overcome the limitations of organic dyes, and in particular broaden their light-absorption range toward longer wavelengths, various molecular designs have been proposed such as the extension of π-conjugated bonding bridges and the incorporation of additional donor or acceptor groups to create a D-D-π-A or D-A-π-A configuration13141516171819.
also recently demonstrated an efficient Zn-based porphyrin D-π-A dye by introducing a benzothiadiazole group as an additional acceptor, and although this is not a metal-free organic dye, it nonetheless enabled a record DSSC efficiency of 13%20.
In light of the limitations of existing organic dyes, we propose a simple molecular design to tailor the energy levels in D-π-A organic dyes through the fluorination of their acceptor units, with the aim of creating more efficient dye-sensitizers for solar cells.
Through this, we demonstrate that the LUMO energy level of the D-π-A organic sensitizer can be gradually lowered by increasing the number of fluorine atoms introduced as additional acceptor units due to their electron-withdrawing ability.
The incorporated fluorine is intended to act as an additional acceptor unit to promote electron transfer to the anchoring group by means of its electron-withdrawing effect, which should result in a reduced HOMO-LUMO energy gap22.
Note that M5 was designed to have a common D-π-A configuration and therefore serves as a reference dye for M6 and M7, both of which were designed to have a D-π-A-A configuration by incorporating one (for M6) or two (for M7) fluorine atoms at the ortho-positions of the cyanoacetic acid as an additional acceptor unit.
3, electrons are uniformly delocalized from the donor to the π-bridge at the HOMO level in all of the investigated dyes, which is favorable for an efficient electron transfer1535.
Meanwhile, at the LUMO level, the excited electron is shifted toward the cyanoacrylic acid acceptor unit and its adjacent benzene moiety.
Since the M series has the same molecular structure with respect to the donor part and π-bridge, the electron density distribution at the HOMO level should be similar for each dye.
At the LUMO level, on the other hand, the electron density distribution varies slightly due to the additional acceptor unit.
The LUMO of M6 has a greater contribution from the cyanoacrylic acid acceptor unit than is seen in M5, while the LUMO of M7 exhibits a further increase in the contribution from this acceptor unit.
This trend indicates that the electron-withdrawing effect of fluorine leads to a more effective charge separation between the donor and acceptor part22.
As predicted by the DFT calculations, the magnitude of ELUMO gradually lowers as the electron-withdrawing power of the acceptor part of the dye molecule is enhanced by additional acceptor units.
As listed in Supplementary Table S1, the magnitude of μz increased in the order of M5 < M6 < M7, with this tendency being attributed to the electron-withdrawing effect of the incorporated fluorine making the acceptor part of the dye molecule more negatively charged.
This data provides clear evidence that the reduction in the HOMO-LUMO energy gap that is created by the incorporation of fluorine as an additional acceptor unit can effectively improve the spectral response and photocurrent of DSSCs.
This was made possible by incorporating one or two fluorine atoms at the ortho-positions of the cyanoacetic acid in the organic dye to act as an additional acceptor unit and reduce the HOMO-LUMO energy gap.
Subsequent CV analyses confirmed that the LUMO energy level is gradually reduced as the electron-withdrawing power of the acceptor part of the dye molecule is enhanced by the incorporation of fluorine.
These photovoltaic results indicate that the incorporation of fluorine into organic dyes as an additional acceptor unit is a promising design strategy for enhancing the spectral response and conversion efficiency of DSSCs.
5d and Table S4), the changes in PIA corresponds to a change in the hot-carrier population in the MAPbI3 acceptor26.
One important case of spin-dependent recombination in organic solar cells is among the weakly bound electron-hole pairs, or charge-transfer (CT) states, that form across the interface between donor and acceptor materials45678.
In a photovoltaic blend, this is achieved by combining two materials in a nanoscale bulk-heterojunction morphology where the difference in energy levels between donor and acceptor components drives exciton dissociation91011.
In this article, we demonstrate this capability and use it to quantitatively investigate spin-dependent pathways in a model system consisting of weakly bound electron-hole pairs recombining at a donor-acceptor interface.
In our previous studies, we have fabricated a series of devices with high performance on the basis of the subphthalocyanine (SubPc) donor and C70 acceptor6970.
In addition, the proposed CGL composed of a blend of a donor and an acceptor on the basis of a bulk heterojunction.
Organic donor–acceptor bulk heterojunction are attracting wide interests for solar cell applications due to solution processability, mechanical flexibility, and low cost.
Especially, organic photovoltaic devices (OPVs) using solution-processible donor–acceptor bulk heterojunction (BHJ) as photon-harvesting active layer are attractive for next-generation flexible photovoltaic modules (Li et al., 2012, 2018; Lin et al., 2012; Heeger, 2014; Dong et al., 2019).
On the one hand, vertical phase separation between the donor and acceptor makes this photon-harvesting scenario more complicated, pointing to the importance of film-depth optical variations.
After fission of exciton, the hole and electron need to transport along different pathways, i.e., donor and acceptor phases, toward anode and cathode, respectively.
Therefore, the film-depth-dependent distribution of donor and acceptor plays an important role in device performance.
The inverted device structure studied in this work is ITO/ZnO/Active layer/MoO3/Al (Figure 4A), with PBDB-T as donor and ITIC as acceptor.
Moreover, due to structural difference, donor and acceptor materials are etched by oxygen plasma at different rates, but the difference is not so great.
The donor aggregates on the top and the acceptor aggregates on the bottom, which is beneficial to the inverted device.
(A) Composition distribution profiles of donor and acceptor, as extracted from film-depth-dependent light absorption spectra (FLAS).
The positions of exciton generation are mainly located in the middle of active layer, and sunlight with the range from 500 to 800 nm contributes the most, which is consistent with the absorption spectra of donor and acceptor.
where EA−LUMO and ED−HOMO are the LUMO of acceptor and HOMO of donor, respectively.
λA and λD are the wavelengths corresponding to absorption peaks of acceptor and donor neat film, respectively.
λA−FLAS and λD−FLAS are the wavelengths corresponding to absorption peaks of acceptor and donor FLAS, respectively.
There is also a robust body of work demonstrating the customizability of squaraine dyes, offering opportunities for the tunability of dye properties through the engineering of functional groups to yield desired properties.50,52,57–59 Previous work on photophysical property engineering of squaraine dyes via substitution is present in the literature with an emphasis on the changing of the donor groups that flank the central squaraine group or the finetuning of dyes largely for efficient light-to-electrical conversion and imaging.52,60,61 In the context of promoting stronger exitonic interaction, customizing squaraine dyes enables the introduction of substituents that may alter their electronic structures to make them more favorable for dipole interactions without detrimentally affecting photophysical properties.62–64 There has also been a research interest in manipulating two key excitonic coupling factors, including exciton hopping (or exchange) energy, Jm,n, and exciton–exciton interaction energy, Km,n, by controlling the transition dipole μ and static dipole difference Δd of a dye monomer.56,65–67 The maximization of μ within a single absorption band is also benefitted by the minimization of vibronic coupling of dyes.68 Maximizing exciton–exciton interaction energy depends upon the maximization of Δd.
In the frame of treating the squaraine as a donor–acceptor–donor dye, the substituents modify the donating behavior of the trimethylindolenine groups attached to the accepting squaric moiety.
3, dyes in the trans,anti conformations have C2h symmetry, which, along with the donor–acceptor–donor electronic pattern of squaraine, results in small changes in Δd.
NP inks with a high performance polymer/nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) system can be developed through emulsion or precipitation techniques [16,17].
[24], PM6 was a promising donor material to process NP−OPVs with high performance.
Moreover, the introduction of 1,8−diiodooctane (DIO) into the pristine THF solution promoted intimate intermixing among donors and acceptor molecules in the ssNP films.
The size of the NPs determines the phase separation and intermixing of the donor and acceptor in the NP films.
The PL spectra of DIO−free ssNP films represents an incomplete PL quenching at both PM6 and BTP−eC9 peaks, thus further confirming an insufficient percolation of donor and acceptor without an additive (Figure 4).
Hybrid organic–inorganic solar cells based on inorganic nanowires (NWs) embedded in photosensitive polymer films have been the focus of research on ways to enhance the power conversion efficiency of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic photovoltaic cells by the simultaneous application of several strategies: enhanced light absorption by NW arrays, improved charge separation, carrier collection and transport in inorganic acceptors [1,2].
One of the most researched light-sensitive polymers, the poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) in mixture with [6,6]-Phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester acceptor, commonly referred to as P3HT:PC71BM, has been a workhorse for organic photovoltaics research due to its light absorption properties and optimum band gap of 1.9 eV [3].
Various inorganic NWs have been implemented as organic acceptor substitutes in BHJ solar cells [4,5,6], leading to power conversion efficiency optimization.
The application of a nanostructured GaN acceptor will take advantage of the unique properties of GaN.
Vbi values, which depend on acceptor and donor material combination, are generally below those reported in the literature for pristine P3HT:PC71BM films [34].
The GaN nanostructures embedded in the P3HT:PC71BM blend are investigated as ordered electron acceptors of hybrid organic–inorganic heterostructures fabricated on silicon.
The analysis presented here unravels the origin of that energy loss by connecting the limiting mechanism governing recombination dynamics to the electronic coupling occurring at the donor polymer and acceptor fullerene interfaces.
As expected for efficient organic solar cells, small electronic coupling existing between donor polymers and acceptor fullerene (Vif < 1 meV) and large reorganization energy (λ ≈ 0.7 eV) are encountered.
New insights on materials properties and interface engineering have led very recently to achieve power conversion efficiencies near 10% in the case of bulk-heterojunction solar cell structures.1 Improvement in solar cell efficiency partially relies upon achieving higher open-circuit voltages Voc by limitation of the charge carrier recombination flux,2 which is understood as the process of charge transfer occurring between occupied acceptor levels and unoccupied donor states.
But even more important is chemical interactions that tend to aggregate molecular units in extended clusters with altered DOS.4 The occurrence of aggregates is known to be highly influenced by the processing conditions followed during the cell construction.5 For instance, the use of different solvents is critical in establishing the final DOS of both acceptor and donor molecular constituents.6 The interplay between materials energetics and charge recombination kinetics does establish the achievable open-circuit voltage.
Instead, we conclude that the time scale for charge recombination is linked with charge transfer molecular properties at the donor/acceptor interface rather than with transport characteristics before separate carriers meet each other.
Recent papers have explicitly suggested, following different approaches, that charge recombination is closely related to molecular interfacial properties.10 Particularly interesting are theoretical findings observing a high dependence of the charge transfer event kinetics on the relative molecular orientations and intermolecular distances.11 Recalling the Marcus approach for electronic charge transfer, we have ascertained that differences in charge recombination among different acceptor/donor combinations are related to variations in the electronic coupling matrix, while all investigated blends exhibit a relatively high reorganization energy λ ≈ 0.7 eV.
To evaluate the role of the charge carrier recombination kinetics on the achievable open-circuit voltage of polymer/fullerene solar cells and separate it from that owed to the donor HOMO position, we have analyzed the device performance by using a purely electrical technique based on impedance measurements of complete cells under illumination.
Performance is compared of solar cells comprising [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM) as acceptor fullerene and different donor polymers: namely, poly(3-hexylthiophene (P3HT), poly[[9-(1-octylnonyl)-9H-carbazole-2,7-diyl]-2,5-thiophenediyl-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl-2,5-thiophenediyl] (PCDTBT),12 and low bandgap diketopyrrolopyrrole-oligothiophene copolymer (DPP860, see Figure 1).
(a) Current density–voltage characteristics of typical devices ITO/PEDOT:PSS/polymer:PC70BM/Ca/Ag using P3HT, PCDTBT, and DPP860 as polymer donors.
(b) Absorption and (c) external quantum efficiency spectra showing the difference between small (DPP860) and large bandgap (P3HT and PCDTBT) donors.
Polymer solar cells were fabricated with a standard sandwich structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/donor:PC70BM/Ca/Ag and 9 mm2 of active area.
To test the effect of the donor LUMO level shift on the overall recombination kinetics and open-circuit voltage, three different donor polymers have been analyzed: namely, P3HT, PCDTBT, and DPP860.
To separate the influence of the charge carrier recombination process on the achievable Voc from the aforementioned effect of the donor HOMO level position, we have performed a series of impedance measurements in polymer/PC70BM BHJ solar cells by varying the applied voltage at 1 sun irradiation intensity.
It has been shown that in many cases electrons form a sort of minority carrier due to p-doping.17 This makes the measured capacitance sensitive to the rise of the occupancy of electron states in the molecular acceptor.
The occupancy of bandgap states is modulated by a parameter α, which accounts for the characteristic energy of the DOS α=T/T0, being T0 the characteristic temperature of the exponential distribution2NL stands for the total level density of the acceptor LUMO manifold.
The DOS occupancy (identified from the exponential rise in the chemical capacitance) is shifted in energy depending on the polymer HOMO position with respect to the acceptor LUMO level.
In the devices studied here, the same acceptor fullerene is used so that it is reasonable to relate the voltage shift in the capacitance plot of Figure 2a principally to the polymer HOMO level offset.
These findings are a strong indication that the recombination kinetics does not depend on the absolute energetics of the donor HOMO levels.
It is then the specific molecular environment at donor–acceptor interfaces that sates the time scale for recombination.
We identify here ΔG0 with the acceptor and donor energy level offset, ΔG0 ∼ En – Ep.
The previous analysis based on impedance measurements allows for an estimation of the actual donor HOMO level considering the P3HT HOMO as a well-established reference.
Equation 20a explicitly states that Voc variations among solar cells comprising different active materials can be simply split into two separated contributions: one related to differences in recombination kinetic time scale, the other exclusively linked with energy HOMO offset of the donors, as far as N00 exhibits similar values between the compared cells.
The case of comparing acceptors with different LUMO level has been recently treated.20 If only the recombination kinetics term of eq 20b is considered one can arrive at quantifying a significant loss in open-circuit voltage of about 100 meV (Table 2) exclusively produced by the increment in the recombination kinetics exhibited by PCDTBT- and DPP860-based solar cells in comparison to that occurring for less recombining P3HT-based devices.
Such a shift in Voc caused by recombination losses entails power conversion efficiency reduction approximately equal to 20% in the case of DPP860 used as donor polymer.
Rather there exists a correlation between the loss in open-circuit voltage and the molecular electronic coupling of the donor/acceptor system.
AbstractA series of ternary organic photovoltaics (OPVs) are fabricated with one wide bandgap polymer D18-Cl as donor, and well compatible Y6 and Y6-1O as acceptor.
By finely adjusting the Y6-1O content, a power conversion efficiency of 17.91% is achieved in the optimal ternary OPVs with 30 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors, resulting from synchronously improved short-circuit-current density (JSC) of 25.87 mA cm−2, fill factor (FF) of 76.92% and VOC of 0.900 V in comparison with those of D18-Cl : Y6 binary OPVs.
This work provides new insight into constructing highly efficient ternary OPVs with well compatible Y6 and its derivative as acceptor.By employing the well compatible Y6 : Y6-1O as acceptor and wide bandgap polymer D18-Cl as donor, the PCE of 17.91% is achieved in optimized ternary OPVs, resulting from the simultaneously improved JSC, FF and VOC.
Ternary OPVs have been established to improve photon harvesting of active layers as much as possible by integrating two donors/one acceptor or one donor/two acceptors with complementary absorption spectra into one active layer.
Charge traps are ineluctably introduced in ternary active layers due to the different lowest-unoccupied-molecular-orbital (LUMO) energy levels between two acceptors or the distinct highest-occupied-molecular-orbital (HOMO) energy levels between two donors.
Nowadays, most of the representative efficient OPVs were fabricated with Y6 or its derivatives as acceptor, which possess a novel A-DA′D-A structure with relatively low bandgap.
The superiorities of Y6 and its derivatives may be simultaneously combined into one cell by employing their blends as acceptor.
Highly ternary OPVs based on Y6 and its derivatives as acceptors are still rarely reported.
In this work, a PCE of 17.91% is achieved in ternary OPVs with Y6 : Y6-1O as acceptor and wide bandgap polymer D18-Cl as donor.
This work may provide a new viewpoint for fabricating highly efficient ternary OPVs based on well compatible non-fullerene materials as acceptor.
The superiorities of two binary OPVs may be combined into one cell by employing Y6 : Y6-X as acceptor.
Series of ternary OPVs were prepared by adjusting the content of Y6-1O in acceptors.
It should be highlighted that the 16.74% PCE and 76.07% FF can still be obtained in the ternary OPVs with 50 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors, indicating the excellent tolerance between Y6 and Y6-1O for fabricating efficient ternary OPVs.
To better understand FF variation of ternary OPVs dependence on Y6-1O content in acceptors, the series resistance (RS) and shunt resistance (RSH) were calculated according to J − V curves of OPVs, as summarized in Table 1.
The minimum RS of 2.54 Ω cm2 and maximum RSH of 925.9 Ω cm2 were simultaneously obtained for the OPVs with 30 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors, which are responsible for the highest FF of the optimal ternary OPVs.
For a better understanding of the variation of EQE spectra dependence on Y6-1O content in acceptors, the absorption spectra of the active layers in real cells were investigated according to the reflection spectra of corresponding cells.
The Eloss of OPVs can be calculated according to the equation: Eloss = Eg − eVOC, in which the bandgap (Eg) can be estimated according to the intersection between the normalized emission and absorption spectra of the acceptor films [19], as shown in Fig.
For the OPVs with the same interfacial layers and electrodes, the VOC strongly depends on the energy level difference between the donor's HOMO and acceptor's LUMO.
The interfacial energy between Y6 and Y6-1O is calculated to be 0.16 mN m−1, which is much lower than that (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{upgreek} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document} }{}${\gamma _{D18 - X: Y6}}\ $\end{document}= 0.68 mN m−1, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{upgreek} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document} }{}${\gamma _{D18 - X: Y6 - X}}\ $\end{document}= 1.37 mN m−1) between donor and acceptor.
To further demonstrate the negligible charge transfer between two acceptors, a series of cells were fabricated with Y6, Y6-1O and Y6 : Y6-1O as active layers.
The Jph* /Jsat and Jph# /Jsat values of OPVs are increased to 96.1% and 86.5%, respectively, by incorporating 30 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors.
The magneto-Jsc was employed to monitor the charge separation at donor–acceptor interfaces based on the following processes.
Singlet excitons can migrate to the donor–acceptor interface to produce electron-hole pairs.
The magneto-JSC of OPVs is firmly related to the ratio of spin-related singlet state and triplet state forming at donor–acceptor interfaces.
If CPEP is equal to 1, the CPE is identical to an ideal capacitor without the presence of any defects at the interface between donor and acceptor [45].
The hole mobility (μh) and electron mobility (μe) of blend films are increased to 8.67 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 and 6.06 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 by incorporating 30 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors, indicating that a more efficient charge transport channel should be formed in the optimal ternary active layers.
The OOP (010) diffraction peaks of binary blend films are located at the same positions as in their corresponding neat acceptor films, suggesting that the π–π stacking in blend films is dominated by acceptors.
As observed from the TEM images of ternary blend films, the aggregated structure between donor and acceptor, as well as the phase separation degree are gradually varied along with the incorporation of Y6-1O.
The appropriate phase separation degree should be formed in the optimal ternary active layers, which provide enough donor–acceptor interfacial area for exciton dissociation, as well as a bi-continuous percolating charge transport path to electrodes.
The 17.91% PCE is achieved in the optimal ternary OPVs with 30 wt% Y6-1O in acceptors, which should be among the highest levels in ternary OPVs.
The activation energies obtained with the geometric average are significantly larger for some donor–acceptor pairs in comparison with the previously employed arithmetic average, their differences being suitable for experimental testing.
The analysis of the relative error allows us to explore novel donor and acceptor molecules used in organic photovoltaics by means of the averaged reorganization energy.
Next, we apply our findings to analyze the activation energy prediction for photovoltaic donor–acceptor (D–A) pairs and report results that can be relevant in applications.
Those cases with very dissimilar λI and λII are examples where one ET deeply influences the relaxed geometry of the isolated donor or acceptor molecules.
Let us now consider a general ET reaction7with D and A denoting donor and acceptor species, respectively, and D– and A– their ionized counterparts.
This reaction can be split into two electron self–exchange processes, and then the total free energy for their respective local minima G10 and G20 is obtained as the sum of both systems (donor plus acceptor).andwhere λ1 and λ2 denote the reorganization energies of the forward and backward reactions, respectively, and the reaction driving force, ΔG0 ≠ 0.
One of the branches with greater relevance to apply the ET Marcus–Hush theory is the process between a donor and an acceptor molecule in an organic photovoltaic (OPV) cell.31,75,76 In this work, a set of potential molecules (Figure 5) for OPV devices are employed to assess the Nelsen’s four-point method and verify the best choice of the reorganization energy in accordance with the Al2 dimer discussion.
Structures in the set of representative π-donors and acceptors used in this paper.
A wide-bandgap polymer donor with improved efficiency plays an important role in improving the photovoltaic performance of polymer solar cells (PSCs).
In this study, two novel wide-bandgap polymer donors, PBDT and PBDT-S, were designed and synthesized based on a dicyanodivinyl indacenodithiophene (IDT-CN) moiety, in which benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) building blocks and IDT-CN are used as electron-sufficient and -deficient units, respectively.
In our study, the PBDT and PBDT-S polymer donors exhibited similar frontier-molecular-orbital energy levels and optical properties, and both copolymers showed good miscibility with the widely used narrow-bandgap small molecular acceptor Y6.
The results of this work indicate that the IDT-CN unit is a promising building block for constructing donor polymers for high-performance organic photovoltaic cells.We developed two novel wide-bandgap polymer donors based on an IDT-CN unit with deep HOMO levels for non-fullerene polymer solar cells with 10.04% efficiency.
Polymer solar cells (PSCs) with bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) have attracted tremendous research attention due to their great potential for fabricating large-area and flexible devices using a roll-to-roll solution process.1–4 Recently, significant progress has been made with non-fullerene PSCs (NF-PSCs) based on extensive investigations of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).
NFAs have several distinct advantages, including easy tuning of the absorption and electronic energy levels, and their high morphological stability, etc.5–16 One of the most significant recent breakthroughs in NFAs is the narrow-bandgap small-molecular acceptor Y6 and its derivatives,17–22 which boost the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of single-junction PSCs by more than 18%, thereby mitigating their performance gap relative to other emerging photovoltaic technologies.
High-performance NFAs have broad absorption profiles with edges extending into the near-infrared region and also the increase the short-circuit current density (JSC).1,6 However, the open-circuit voltages (VOC) of these devices are relatively low because of the low-lying lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of the NFAs.23,24 To further improve the efficiency of NF-PSCs and overcome the fundamental compromise between the JSC and VOC output, it is important to develop an ideal wide-bandgap (WBG) polymer with complementary absorption in the short wavelength region and a deeper highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level.25,26 Enabling them to fully utilize the solar spectrum, WBG polymer donors better match the NFAs, thus maximizing the JSC of the devices.27–30 To date, just a few high-performance conjugated polymer donors, i.e., PM6,7 PTQ10,31 P2F-EHp,8 D18,10PTO2,32 and S1,33 have been reported to match NFAs to achieve more efficient NF-PSCs.
Thus, it remains a demanding task to synthesize well-designed high-efficiency donor materials with deep HOMO levels that suitably match state-of-the-art low-bandgap NFAs to obtain high-performance NF-PSCs.
For instance, several donor polymer with fluoro-substituted thiophene group or ester-substituted thiophene groups on the main chains show wide-bandgap and low-lying HOMO levels (Fig.
Cyano (–CN) group-substituted units have been widely used in the construction of donor–acceptor conjugated polymers for optoelectronic devices, because the electron-withdrawing –CN substituents increase the electron affinity to promote efficient charge transport and it can endow the D–A copolymers with deep-lying HOMO levels.34–38 Several polymers with –CN groups on the main chains show large bandgaps and low-lying HOMO levels, for example, Park et al.
reported that the polymer PBDCS based on β-dicyanodistyrylbenzene and benzodithiophene (BDT) with thiophene-conjugated side chains exhibited a deep HOMO of −5.59 eV and a band-gap of 1.75 eV.39 In previous work, we reported that a series of copolymers containing a dicyanodistyrylbenzene unit exhibited a deep HOMO.34 These findings indicate that –CN substituents on the electron-acceptor moiety can be used to tune the properties of donor polymers toward those of a WBG.
Chemical structures of representative high-performance polymer donors containing fluorine and ester group for NF-PSCs.
From the chemical structure we could find that the polymer consisting of BDT and IDT building block connected by the strong electron withdrawing group cyanovinylene unit, which is considered an effective strategy for constructing donor polymer with wide-bandgap and deep HOMO level.
Using Y6 as an electron acceptor, the PBDT-based PSCs device delivered a PCE of 10.04% with a VOC of 0.88 V, a JSC of 22.16 mA cm−2 and an FF of 51.31%, whereas the PBDT-S-based PSCs device obtained a moderate PCE of 6.90% with a VOC of 0.90 V, a JSC of 16.18 mA cm−2 and an FF of 46.99%.
The results of our comparative research indicate that the incorporating of a strong electron withdrawing group linker unit into donor and donor unit provide an interesting platform for the design of donor polymer with wide-bandgap and deep HOMO level, which would be helpful for the rational molecular design of organic semiconducting materials for PSCs.
(a) Chemical structure of donors and acceptor; (b) device structure of polymer solar cells; (c) energy-level diagram of donors and acceptor.
1 shows the molecular structures of the copolymers PBDT and PBDT-S, each of which has Y6 as a small molecular acceptor.
Therefore, both copolymers demonstrated complementary absorption with the Y6 acceptor in the vis-NIR region, which effectively broadens the absorption range of the blended film and facilitates light harvesting by PSCs devices.
The HOMO energy levels of PBDT-S copolymers were slightly lower than those of the PBDT copolymers, which promotes a higher VOC of the PSCs that use these polymers as donor.
The low-lying HOMO levels of the copolymers matched with the acceptor Y6.
The optimized active layer was spin-coated from chloroform solution with an optimized donor/acceptor (D/A) weight ratio of 1 : 1.2 and without any additive, the corresponding performance parameters of which are listed in Table 2.
It can be seen that charge generation benefits from the complementary absorption of the donors and acceptors.
However, the polymer PBDT designed through incorporating cyanovinylene linker unit into donor–donor unit, provided an interesting strategy for constructing donor polymer with wide-bandgap and deeper HOMO energy level, which is beneficial to enhance the JSC and VOC values of PSCs.
Moreover, it is worth pointing out that the PCE essentially correlates to various parameters, such as the miscibility of donor/acceptor, film thickness and morphology of the blend film, the geometry of solar cell devices and so forth.
Our current work is mainly devoted to demonstrating a electron-withdrawing linker introduced onto the backbone is a good strategy to downshift the HOMO while keeping the large Eg of donor polymer.
In summary, we synthesized two novel copolymers, PBDT and PBDT-S, as donor materials for NF-PSCs based on the dicyanodivinyl indacenodithiophene (IDT-CN) moiety and benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) units, and investigated their optical and electrochemical properties.
Using the narrow-bandgap acceptor Y6, the NF-PSCs based on PBDT and PBDT-S as-cast blended films obtained low PCEs of 8.41% and 5.86%, respectively.
These results demonstrate that the IDT-CN-based copolymer is a promising donor material for the construction of high-performance NF-PSCs.
P3HT as an electron donor and ICBA as an electron acceptor were purchased from 1-material Co. (Quebec, Canada).
Organic semiconductor-based photovoltaics (OPVs) have attracted a great deal of attention for their use in next-generation photovoltaics because of their potential advantages including light weight, mechanical flexibility, and low-cost fabrication over a large area.1−4 Although the performance of OPVs has been rapidly improved by molecular design,4,5 crystallinity and morphology control,6,7 and the introduction of light trapping structures,8,9 OPVs still have the limitation of short exciton diffusion lengths (several tenths of nanometers) compared with inorganic material-based photovoltaics (PVs).2,10,11 An exciton diffusion bottleneck of conjugated polymers results in photogenerated excitons failing to reach the donor/acceptor interface.
Initially, HPVs were fabricated using P3HT and PCBM as donor and acceptor materials, respectively, as they have been widely used over the past decade in OPV research.
With the introduction of active substituents such as COOEt, CONH2 and CN into the thiophene segment, three novel thieno pyridine sensitizers (6a–c), based on donor-acceptor D-π-A construction, are designed and synthesized.
Typically, the common architect system (D-π-A) for DSSCs consists of a hydrophobic electron-rich donor π-conjugated bridge unit and a hydrophilic electron-deficient acceptor [4].
In this structure, the highest occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbitals (LUMO) are mainly localized around the donor and acceptor parts of the dye molecule, respectively [5].
This orientation favors the electron injection and slows down recombination between electrons in the TiO2 photoanode conduction band (i.e., the semiconductor and oxidized molecules) through the anchoring/acceptor group adsorbed on its surface (i.e., a cyano, carboxylic or phosphonic group) [6,7].
The sensitizer is illuminated by the light; thus, the excited electrons will transfer from donor to acceptor terminals through the π-conjugation bridge and then inject into the conduction band.
Thiophene derivatives (e.g., bithiophenes [5], oligo thiophenes [5], aryl thiophenes [12] and aryl bithiophenes [13]) have attracted the attention of many researchers to synthesize donor-acceptor substituted π-conjugated systems, such as formyl π-conjugated systems, through cross-coupling/metalation followed by DMF quenching [5] and Vilsmeier-Haack-Arnold formylation reactions [13,14].
The UV-Vis absorption spectra (A) of the synthesized dyes (6a–c) are measured in DMF (Figure 1), where the values of maximum absorbance wavelengths (λmax) are affected by the strength of the donor in direct proportion.
Since the absorption of D-π-A could be shifted towards longer (λ) (i.e., intramolecular donor and acceptor charge transfer), these dyes may be applied for solar cells [24].
Spectroscopy and electrochemical analysis confirmed that the keto acceptor of dye (6b) is a relatively stronger acceptor and improved the photovoltaic performance compared with other substituents.
Some efforts have been made to augment the ε of dyes, such as adding donor or acceptor groups to the π-conjugation network [13], extending the π-conjugation network [14], and making the dye structures more planar [15,16,17].
Nevertheless, the effect of the environment-induced disorder on the optical properties of these materials has been demonstrated to be crucial for the design of new organic photovoltaic materials.10−14 In this work, we fill this gap by introducing a first-principles model describing the optical properties of the electron-donor P3HT system, which includes the effect of the disorder induced by a realistic description of the OPV blend.
Indeed, extensive theoretical studies on the photophysics of conjugated oligomers analogous to the P3HT system21−24 address an existing correlation between the shape of the absorption spectra and the structural morphology of the electron-donor polymer.
In the present work, and with the prospect of developing a complete description of the charge-transfer process in prototypical OPV materials, we introduce a state-of-the-art modeling of a 12-mer P3HT electron donor system in a prototypical P3HT:PCBM thin-film blend which includes a realistic description of the fluctuating blend environment.
Our presented model serves as a stepping stone for the development of a next-stage model that describes the photoinitiated quantum dynamics of the charge separation at the donor–acceptor heterojunction in prototypical organic OPV materials.
Indeed, the S nonbonding lone-pair orbital can function as an electron donor (Lewis base), interacting with lead cations (Lewis acids) in solution, while halide ions can strongly coordinate molybdenum [32].
This study seeks to increase device efficiency and simplify morphology measurements by replacing the typical fullerene acceptor with endohedral fullerene Lu3N@PC80BEH.
Electron microscopy techniques are used to produce a detailed account of morphology evolution in mixtures of Lu3N@PC80BEH with the record breaking donor polymer, PTB7 and coated using solvent mixtures.
Lu3N@C80-PCBEH has a lower electron affinity (EA) than PC70BM which results in increased open circuit voltage (VOC) and high device efficiencies in mixtures with the donor polymer P3HT24.
Several reports in literature report reduced PCE in polymer mixtures with the low EA acceptor ICBA and attribute the reduced efficiency to a reduction in charge separation driving force2627.
The data presented above investigates the use of Lu3N@C80-PCBEH as an electron acceptor for OPV devices using the polymer PTB7 as a donor.
Bulk-heterojunction devices were fabricated using PTB7 as the electron donor and Lu3N@C80PCBEH as the electron acceptor.
The donor and acceptor phases are separated in a bilayer heterojunction [47].
The donor and acceptor materials are extensively blended in a Bulk Hetero Junction (BHJ) type to decrease the distance of the interface areas from the point of exciton generation [47], allowing the exciton to travel much less than the diffusion length to avoid recombination.
While the bilayer structure has a 2D donor-acceptor interface in the BHJ device, this interface is three-dimensional.
After depositing an electrode and a mix of donor and acceptor materials in a bulk volume, a junction between two distinct materials is formed.
Semiconducting Single-Wall Carbon Nano Tubes (S-SWCNT) are used as electron donors, C60 fullerene is used as an electron acceptor, and graphene is used as an anode in this experiment.
Figure 1 shows a structure that blends two semiconducting materials, a donor (SWCNT) and an acceptor (C60 fullerene), with distinct band gaps positioned between two electrodes (graphene, 5.3 eV anode, and aluminum, 4.2 eV cathode), to form a junction that aids in charge separation of excitons [43,46,47,48,49,50].
In BHJ, the donor and acceptor materials are mixed in large quantities Figure 1.
Donor–acceptor phase separation may be seen across length scales of 10–20 nm.
An SWCNT donor and C60 acceptor material are utilized instead of the typical P3HT: PCBM active material.
Herein a new family of Y‐shape polymer acceptor, namely PYTT is developed, which is copolymerized from Y6 and benzotrithiophene units in three‐way directions.
In PYTT blend film with PM6 polymer donor, the interpenetrating nano‐fibrillar structures are formed with well‐intermixed polymeric domain sizes close to the exciton diffusion length, which is greatly conducive to exciton dissociation and charge transport in device.
Consequently, PYTT‐based all‐PSCs exhibit all increased photovoltaic parameters, yielding a decent power conversion efficiency of 15.60%, which is ≈20% enhancement over PYT‐based device, along with low nonradiative loss of 0.221 meV.Y‐branched polymer acceptor—PYTT featuring 3D highly branched structure displays good organic solubility yet strong crystallinity.
When paired with PM6 donor, the reduced domain size is close to the exciton diffusion length in blend film.
All‐polymer solar cells (all‐PSCs) comprising both polymeric donor and acceptor have attracted ever‐increasing attention thanks to their superior thermal stability, photostability, and mechanical stability when compared to small‐molecule acceptor based organic solar cells (SMA‐OSCs).
[  6 ,  7  ] The rapid developments of all‐PSCs have great benefits from polymerized small‐molecule acceptors (PSMAs),[  8  ] optimized blend film morphology via a combination of solvent additive and thermal annealing,[  6  ] and pseudo‐bi‐layered device configuration.
When matched with PBDB‐T donor, the PJ1−based all‐PSC device exhibited a high extinction coefficient of 1.39 × 105 cm−1, yielding an excellent PCE of 14.4% with a prominent short‐circuit current density (J SC) of 22.3 mA cm−2.
denoted as M n (=12.3 kDa) PYTs attained a trade‐off between ordered domain arrangement and suitable phase‐separation in the blend film with PM6 donor, which led to a high fill factor (FF) of 64%.
reduces solubility in organic solvents and causes large‐scale phase‐segregation between polymer donor and acceptor domains,[  11  ] which hinders exciton dissociation at the donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces and results in severe geminate recombination.
Herein we propose and explore such a kind of spatially structured acceptor polymers—branched π‐conjugated polymers (BCPs) that intend to effectively tackle the above‐mentioned morphological issues.
BCPs featuring 3D architectures differ from their conventional linear counterparts,[  19  ] in that BCPs are intrinsically stretched in all directions and hence tend to form globular structures and provide large internal space and high‐density end‐chains,[  20 ,  21  ] both of which guarantee the sufficient contacts with donor polymers, in particular those linear ones.
In this contribution, we designed and synthesized such a Y‐branched polymer acceptor—PYTT with three extended arms via Stille coupling based polycondensation for all‐PSCs.
When blended with benchmark PM6 donor, an incredibly near‐unity quenching PL efficiency is obtained while both significantly improved compatibility and tighter π–π stacking are found in PYTT‐based blend film.
The molecular structures and synthetic procedures of two polymer acceptors—PYT and PYTT—are depicted in Figure  1 .
a) Molecular structures of PM6 polymer donor, PYT, and PYTT polymer acceptors and b) synthetic routes of PYT and PYTT.
The HOMO levels of both acceptors are slightly deeper than that of PM6 donor, which aids to reduce energy loss in device.
Both PSMAs present the optical absorption complementary to PM6 donor, which is desirable for solar photon harvesting.
When paired with PM6 donor, the PYTT‐based blend film shows a surprisingly higher PL quenching efficiency of 98.75% than that of PYT (81.62%), suggesting an occurrence of highly efficient hole transfer from PYTT to PM6.
On the other hand, the miscibility of donor and acceptor polymers was evaluated by Flory−Huggins interaction parameters (i.e., χ D−A) as calculated from an equation of χD−A=K(γD+γA) 2,[  29  ] where γ D and γ A represent the surface energy of polymer donor and acceptor, respectively, and K is the constant.
As shown in Table  3 , the PYT and PYTT based devices show the ΔE 1 values of 0.255 and 0.258 eV, respectively, which fall within a range of 0.25−0.3 eV that exists inevitably in solar cells,[  39  ] while ΔE 2 is caused by the radiative recombination below the optical E g, which can be reduced by minimizing the energy level offsets between the donor and acceptor.
In sum, the above detailed analysis has manifested that the suppressed E loss in PYTT‐based device can be mainly attributed to the reduced non‐radiative loss, which is key to raising V OC, further demonstrating the vitality of conceptual designing such Y‐branched structured polymer acceptor.
To conclude, we have for the first time developed such a polymer acceptor, PYTT that features unique Y‐branched 3D structures.
In addition, PYTT shows the identical optical absorption range, yet threefold higher PL intensity, which is surprisingly quenched by a near‐unity in blend film with PM6 donor, indicative of extremely efficient charge transfer, which is responsible for high J SC of PYTT‐based device.
The active layer was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and was obtained by spinning from CF solution with CN as the processing additive at 3000 rpm for 30 s. The constant weight ratio of donor/acceptor was 1:1 with a total concentration of 14 mg mL−1.
Frameworks comprising two electronically separated subunits can form highly defined interdigitated donor–acceptor heterojunctions, which can drive the photogeneration of free charge carriers.
The newly developed triphenylene–porphyrin COF was grown as an oriented thin film with the donor and acceptor units forming one-dimensional stacks that extend along the substrate normal, thus providing an optimal geometry for charge carrier transport.
Organic polymer- and small molecule-based solar cells have reached impressive power conversion efficiencies during the past years.1−4 While much of the progress is stimulated by the development of new donor materials, the precise design of their nanoscale morphology within photoactive blends remains a major challenge.5−8 Efficient bulk-heterojunction devices require the formation of a bicontinuous network of the donor and acceptor phases with appropriate length scales for charge generation along with favorable molecular packing and long-range order for efficient charge carrier transport.9−11 It is, however, extremely difficult to predict and control the packing of functionalized conjugated molecules upon spinodal decomposition of a blend solution, as even minor chemical modifications can induce significant changes in the molecular arrangement.
Covalent organic frameworks (COFs) are an emerging class of materials featuring molecular building blocks that are organized into 2D or 3D porous crystalline structures through covalent bonds.12−15 Specifically, the π-stacked aromatic subunits of 2D COFs enable electronic interactions between the COF layers and thus provide a path for exciton and charge carrier transport.16−20 The rigid COF network provides mechanical and thermal stability, while its optoelectronic properties can be tailored to a specific application via the selection of appropriate building blocks.21−25 Recently, COFs comprising alternating π-stacked columns of two electroactive building blocks have been reported.26,27 If the energy levels of these subunits are aligned adequately, an atomically ordered, interdigitated donor–acceptor heterojunction can be formed.
While the photogeneration of charge carriers inside donor–acceptor COFs has been observed in pump–probe experiments,28 the utilization of this effect in a photovoltaic device has remained elusive to date.
Recently, two examples of COF-containing photovoltaic devices have been reported by our group29 and others.30 The COFs investigated in those reports, however, did not provide the photoactive junction within their framework but rather served as donor materials when combined with fullerene derivatives as acceptors.
Herein we present for the first time a photovoltaic device that utilizes a vertically oriented thin film of a novel triphenylene–porphyrin (TP-Por) COF as a photoactive donor–acceptor junction.
After photoexcitation, the TP-Por COF film shows two absorption bands in the range of the free radical ion absorption, indicating electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor moiety within the network (see the text).
The current–voltage curve (e) and EQE spectrum (f) confirm the successful integration of the donor–acceptor COF as the active layer of the photovoltaic device.
If the building blocks are selected in such a way that the HOMO and LUMO energy levels of one component are higher than the respective energy levels of the other component, the COF will form an interdigitated donor–acceptor structure.
These signals are very similar to the sum of the absorption spectra of the free radical ions of the electron acceptor (Por–)39 and donor (TP+),40 indicating efficient electron transfer within the framework.
Vacuum-deposited, slightly substoichiometric molybdenum trioxide is commonly used as a hole extraction layer in high-efficiency organic solar cells.41 Its high work function provides excellent coupling to the HOMO of common donor materials, whereas electron transfer from the LUMO of the acceptor phase is blocked.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of a photovoltaic device utilizing the inherent donor–acceptor structure of a COF for photocurrent generation.
We have developed a new porphyrin- and triphenylene-containing COF featuring ordered columns of donor and acceptor moieties within its framework.
This component is associated with a significant energy stabilization (−41.20 kcal/mol) and a charge transfer from the Au–Al bond region to carbon dioxide of 0.326 e. The decomposition into the donor and acceptor NOCV orbitals19 (Figure S3) shows that the electron density accumulation has the main contribution from the LUMO of CO2, while the electron density depletion shows contributions from the HOMO–2 and HOMO of the [tBu3PAuAl(NON’)] fragment, both representing the Au–Al σ bond, where Al 3s3pz–Au 6s6pz type orbitals are involved.
Decomposition into donor and acceptor NOCV orbitals (Figure S4) shows that the main contribution to the donor orbital is the HOMO of CO2, whereas a clear characterization of the acceptor orbital is less straightforward, since several delocalized unoccupied MOs, all with small Al 3px orbital mixing, contribute to it.
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of widely studied n-type semiconductor 3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone)-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′]-dithiophene (ITIC)-based polymer solar cells have made significant progress in last two years [7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14] because of the advantage of broader absorption in the visible-near infrared region and fine-tuned energy level compared with the traditional PSCs based on fullerene acceptors [15,16,17].
With the development of new polymer donor and modification of nonfullerene acceptor, the PCE of nonfullerene PSCs has reached 13%–18% [3,11,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28].
Designing and synthesizing novel medium bandgap polymer donors that match well with nonfullerene acceptors are also of vital importance in realizing high-performance solar cells.
For backbone engineering, donor-acceptor (D-A) alternating copolymerization has been a widely applied method.
Among the variety of donor units, benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene (BDT) has been a splendid electron-donating building block due to its favorable planarity and intense π-π interaction [29,30,31,32].
As reported, the BDT monomer substituted with alkylthiobiphenyl (BDTBPS) and alkylthionaphthyl (BDTNS) could be promising electron-donating units for designing high-performance donor polymers.
These make FTAZ more suitable for constructing medium bandgap donor polymer matching with ITIC [53].
Herein, fluorinated 2-alkyl-benzo[d] [1,2,3]triazoles (FTAZ) was chosen as the acceptor building block.
Devices with different donor/acceptor (D/A) ratios (1:1, 1:1.5, 1:2) were fabricated to explore the best D/A ratio of the blend.
On the contrary, PBDTBPS-FTAZ:ITIC blend film exhibits a rough surface with a large RMS of 1.98 and a large scale of phase separation, indicating the aggregation of polymers and acceptors are severe in the blend film thus limiting the excitons separation and transportation.
Considering the increasing interest in SubPcs as electron‐acceptor semiconductors with remarkable absorption in the visible range to replace fullerene in organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices, it is of the utmost importance to develop new synthetic methodologies for their axial functionalisation.For the first time subphthalocyanine‐hydride derivatives that exhibit high reactivity as hydroboration reagents of aldehydes have been prepared.
Considering the increasing interest in SubPcs as electron‐acceptor semiconductors to replace fullerene in organic photovoltaic devices, it is of the utmost importance to develop new synthetic methodologies for their axial functionalisation.
Given the electron‐donor capacity and the small size of the hydride substituent, this innovative derivative may possess a particular chemical reactivity and interesting electronic and aggregation properties.
The increasing interest in SubPcs as electron‐acceptor chromophores to replace fullerene in OPV devices heightens the interest in developing new synthetic methodology for their axial functionalisation.
These results help to understand how new fullerene acceptors can affect the performance of OPV devices.
The small band gap donor polymer PffBT4T-2OD, poly [(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3′″-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′; 5′, 2″; 5″,2′″-quaterthio phen-5,5′″-diyl)], also commonly known as PCE11, has been attracting large interest due to its potential to fabricate high performing OPV devices [11,12,13,14,15,16].
The BHJ layer plays a key role in the organic-based photovoltaic system, being a mixture of a p-type small bandgap conjugated donor polymer and an n-type acceptor to form a bicontinuous interpenetrating network [17].
The most common n-type materials used and developed for OPVs devices are the fullerene based-acceptors [15], in which their functionalization provides an opportunity of inserting a wide variety of different electron donor and withdrawing groups with direct influence on the location of the HOMO-LUMO levels and the optical absorption [18,19].
The two most widely used electron-accepting materials in OPVs are PC61BM ([6, 6]-Phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester) [20,21] and its analogue PC71BM ([6, 6]-Phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester) [22], both now considered as references for all kind of fullerene acceptors, due to their good solubility, high electron mobility, and high chemical stability.
Although PC71BM is the most commonly used fullerene in organic solar cells, several other modified fullerenes are found in the literature with specific characteristics and have been assessed as acceptors in BHJs.
[13] performed an extensive polymer:fullerene combination, testing the use of a large number of different fullerene acceptors (PC71BM, PC61BM, TC71BM, PC61PM, TC61PM, and ICMA) in devices based on the polymer PffBT4T-2OD and on other family-related polymers.
[15] studied the effect of three different fullerene acceptors (PC71BM, PC61BM, and ICBA) on the performance of solar cells based on PffBT4T-2OD.
In this work we synthesize some new C60-based and C70-based fullerenes, bearing electron-donating and electron-withdrawing functionalities, and we test their effect as electron acceptors in the figures of merit of polymer solar cells based on the polymer PffBT4T-2OD.
Although the PCE results are not among the best found in literature, the complete characterization of the materials and respective devices can help to further understand the role of the different fullerene acceptor structures in the performance of OPVs.
This observation is related to the electron donor ability of the different R groups (Figure 1a).
A well-known [58] simple empirical relationship between VOC and the HOMO/LUMO levels of respectively donor/acceptor can be established, leading to VOC≈(ELUMOA−EHOMOD)−0.3.
In practice, the search for a suitable explanation for the empirical 0.3 (V) in VOC equation, has shown that open-circuit voltage is dependent on the quasi-Fermi levels in both donor and acceptor materials.
However, and as far as we know, this is the only study in the literature in which devices with standard architecture ITO/PEDOT:PSS/BHJ/Al and based on N-alkyl-fulleropyrrolidine acceptors achieved efficiencies comparable to reference PC61BM-based devices.
In our present work, the phenyl substituents -COOCH3 and -F are electron-withdrawing groups that decrease the electron density on the N-atom of pyrrolidine (less basic) and the -OCH3 substituent is an electron donor group that increases the electron density on the N-atom of pyrrolidine (more basic).
For example, in the case of C60-fulleropyrrolidines we observe that the most basic acceptors 60a and 60b, originate the higher efficiency devices which apparently goes against Karakawa et al.
Therefore, the graphene sheets could be positively or negatively charged with varying donor and acceptor numbers depending on the solvents.
The active layer can be a double layer (one has a stronger affinity for electrons (donor) and the other has a stronger affinity for holes (acceptor)) or a bulk heterojunction (mixture of a donor and acceptor material in bulk).
[187] and is based on an active blend of a conducting polymer (electron donor material) mixed with fullerene derivatives (electron acceptor material) [188].
Photon absorption in the conducting polymer (donor material).
Exciton separation at the interface between the donor and the acceptor.
Because of the built-in electric field at the interface, the electron is transferred to the acceptor and the hole to the donor (creation of the photocurrent).
Step 1: photon absorption in the conducting polymer (donor material).
Step 3: exciton separation at the interface of the heterojunction (interface between the donor and the acceptor).
The BHJ solar cells currently most studied are based on a fullerene derivative commonly called [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM or PCBM) as the acceptor material and the conducting polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) as the donor material [196–198].
The specific choice of these materials is due to the fact that the exciton separation at the acceptor/donor interface and the transport of the charges across the device is strongly affected by the energy band alignment.
Figure 34a shows how, in a regular structure, the electrons and holes can easily move from the donor/acceptor interface to the respective electrodes because the energy values of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of each material are very similar [26].
CNTs have also been used in organic solar cells to replace fullerenes as the acceptor material.
This is due to the large surface interface area of the acceptor/donor and continuous pathway, similar to CNTs [235–237].
(b) Energy level diagrams of the ITO bottom electrode, interlayer materials (PEDOT/PSS, GO), P3HT (donor), PCBM (acceptor), and the Al top electrode.
The development of new electron-accepting π-conjugated systems for application as nonfullerene acceptors in organic solar cells (OSCs) is urgently needed.
Although π-conjugated systems based on naphtho[1,2-c:5,6-c′]bis[1,2,5]thiadiazole (NTz) and naphthalimide (Np) as central and terminal units, respectively, represent possible candidates for nonfullerene acceptors, our knowledge of the structure–property–device performance relationship of these compounds remains limited.
Bulk-heterojunction-type OSCs based on these acceptors under blending with poly(3-hexylthiophene) as a donor showed various power conversion efficiencies, ranging from 0.26 to 2.14%.
These results indicate the importance of molecular design in preparing nonfullerene acceptors with NTz and Np units in terms of tuning both the molecular properties of the materials and donor–acceptor interface engineering in the blended films.
For the past two decades, solution-processed bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) have attracted extensive research interest from both academic and industrial scientists because of their advantages of lightweight, low cost, mechanical flexibility, and compatibility with roll-to-roll printing processes.1−5 Both hole-transporting (donor) and electron-transporting (acceptor) organic semiconductors are the required components for the fabrication of BHJ-type active layers in OSCs.6−9 Extensive research has resulted in a widely accepted general molecular design for high-performance donor materials, which is based on donor–acceptor configurations in π-conjugated systems.10−15 In terms of acceptors, fullerene derivatives have contributed substantially to the enhancement of photovoltaic performance as well as our fundamental understanding of photoinduced charge generation.16−19 However, they have some limitations, including weak light absorption in the visible and near-infrared regions, high cost, tedious purification procedures, and insufficient morphological stability.20−23 To address these problems, considerable efforts have been expended on the development of nonfullerene acceptors.24−34 In terms of adapting the energy levels to those of donors to facilitate charge separation and to obtain a high open-circuit voltage, a rational guideline for the creation of acceptors would be to lower the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy to an appropriate level.
In this context, novel electron-accepting π-conjugated systems derived by the introduction of electron-deficient units have become candidates for acceptors.
We recently reported, for the first time, that naphtho[1,2-c:5,6-c′]bis[1,2,5]thiadiazole (NTz) can function as an electron-deficient unit in nonfullerene acceptors.44 A new electron-accepting π-conjugated system, which combines NTz with the naphthalimide (Np) terminal units and thiophene (T) as a π-linker, showed good OSC characteristics with a PCE of 2.81% in combination with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as a donor (Figure 1).44 In this system, the acetylene linker is effective to maintain the planarity of the π-conjugated structure and thus to delocalize the LUMO, resulting in the lowered LUMO energy level.
It is important to note that the NTz-containing acceptor showed a superior performance compared to the benzothiadiazole (BTz)-containing acceptor.
We also found that the expansion of π-conjugation in the terminal unit from phthalimide to Np is effective when it is combined with the BTz central unit.45 However, to confirm that these NTz-based compounds can function as new types of acceptors, the structure–property relationships of the compounds will need to be explored thoroughly.
In this contribution, we report on the design and development of some new acceptor molecules NTz-TH-Np, NTz-TF-Np, NTz-Thex-Np, and NTz-Teh-Np, in which the thiophene moiety contains various substituents (hydrogen, fluorine, n-alkyl chain, or branched alkyl chain), and an investigation of the effect of these substituents on their properties and photovoltaic performance (Figure 1).
Chemical structures of newly synthesized acceptors containing the NTz unit.
The electrochemical behavior of these acceptors was investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) in an o-DCB/acetonitrile (CH3CN) (10:1) solution containing 0.1 M tetrabultylammonium hexafluorophosphate (TBAPF6).
Considering that the ELUMO and EHOMO of P3HT are −2.81 and −4.72 eV, respectively,52 these synthesized compounds would be expected to conduct effective charge separation from the excitons via electron or hole transport as an OSC acceptor in combination with P3HT as a donor.
The active layers, which consist of P3HT as a donor and the individual newly synthesized compound (NTz-TH-Np, NTz-TF-Np, NTz-Thex-Np, or NTz-Teh-Np) as an acceptor, were prepared by spin-coating from the blended solutions.
For a direct comparison of OSC performance, the fabrication conditions for the BHJ active layer were fixed as follows: a donor/acceptor blend composition of 1:1 ratio, a concentration of 20 mg mL–1 in CB, and thermal annealing at 140 °C for 15 min.
All of the devices showed typical photovoltaic responses, indicating that the synthesized compounds functioned as acceptors.
On a closer look at the key photovoltaic parameters, the VOC value was increased with an increasing ELUMO of the acceptors and reached 0.92 V for NTz-Thex-Np.
This trend is in good agreement with the fact that the VOC of the OSC device is controlled by the difference in the energy level between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor.53 In terms of JSC and FF, the values of the acceptors with alkyl groups on the thiophene ring (NTz-Thex-Np and NTz-Teh-Np) were higher than those of NTz-TH-Np and NTz-TF-Np.
Under the same experimental setup and the same blend composition of 1:1 ratio, the OSC devices based on P3HT and typical fullerene acceptor [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester showed a PCE of 2.68% with a VOC of 0.59 V, an FF of 0.61, and a JSC value of 7.53 mA cm–2.
In comparison with these values, P3HT:NTz-Thex-Np showed comparable PCE and higher VOC values, indicating the potential for the NTz-based nonfullerene acceptor materials.
To investigate the relationship between the molecular structure of the acceptors and device performance, we carried out atomic force microscopy (AFM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), UV–vis, and photoluminescence (PL) measurements on the blend films.
When the SFE values of the acceptors were increased, the Ra of the blend films was decreased for NTz-TF-Np, NTz-Thex-Np, and NTz-Teh-Np.
This phenomenon indicates that the large difference in SFEs between the acceptors and P3HT (9.7 mJ cm–2) contributes to the formation of phase-separated morphologies.54 On the other hand, although the SFE value for NTz-TH-Np was similar to that for NTz-TF-Np, P3HT:NTz-TH-Np showed the largest Ra among the blend films.
This suggests that the presence of sterically bulky substituents in the terminal positions of the acceptor π-framework leads to a large London dispersion (γd) value of SFE and becomes a general strategy for orienting the π-conjugated frameworks toward the D–A interface, which, in turn, contributes to improving the photovoltaic characteristics based on nonfullerene acceptors with both linear and three-dimensional structures.47,48 In fact, the London dispersion (γd) of SFE of NTz-Thex-Np and NTz-Teh-Np showed large values of more than 30 mJ cm–2 (Table 3), implying that appropriate D–A interfaces were formed in the blend films.
Therefore, we conclude that achieving these molecular designs by the fine-tuning of substituents on the thiophene rings represents an important strategy for further developing the NTz-based nonfullerene acceptors.
In summary, to investigate the effect of substituents on the thiophene linker on the properties and photovoltaic characteristics, we designed and synthesized a series of new nonfullerene acceptors bearing NTz as an electron-deficient central core coupled with a terminal Np via a thiophene linker containing various substituents (hydrogen, fluorine, hexyl, and 2-ethylhexyl groups).
The UV–vis, CV, and PESA measurements showed that the absorption properties as well as HOMO and LUMO energy levels of these acceptors could be finely controlled by the substituents on the thiophene spacer.
The BHJ solar cells based on these acceptors and P3HT as a donor showed photovoltaic characteristics with PCEs in the range between 0.26 and 2.14%.
An investigation of the blend films by the SCLC, AFM, XRD, UV–vis, and PL measurements revealed that the substituents on the thiophene rings in the acceptors have a significant influence on the film morphologies, crystallinity, and photophysical properties.
The results reported herein promise to enable us to design new electron-accepting π-conjugated molecules having NTz and Np units in terms of tuning both molecular properties and donor–acceptor interface engineering in the blend films, which also provides a clue for developing a general methodology for constructing nonfullerene acceptors.
Further studies directed at the development of NTz-based acceptors with the fine-tuning of energy levels in the properties and miscibility in the blend films as well as OSC device optimization under the combination of donor–acceptor-type copolymers are currently underway by our group.
The active layers based on P3HT and new acceptors were spin-coated (1000 rpm for 2 min) on the PEDOT:PSS layer and annealed at 140 °C for 15 min in a glovebox, providing a thickness of around 98–107 nm.
The blend films were prepared from 20 mg mL–1 solution of P3HT and new acceptors in CB.
For the estimation of SFE of the newly synthesized acceptors, the compounds were spin-coated on the quartz substrate to form uniform films.
The following simultaneous equation was used for the determination of SFE of the new acceptors, where θ, γL, and γS are the contact angle, surface energy of liquid, and surface energy of surface, respectively, in this equation.
Every point of light absorption in this nanopillar film would be within a single exciton diffusion length of the donor/acceptor interface, and the film would capture significantly more incident light than a commonly used 20 nm planar layer.
Coincidentally, C60 is the acceptor molecule commonly used with MPc materials in the active layer of small molecule OPV devices.
Poly[(5,5’-(2,3-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)naphthalene-1,4-diyl)bis(thiophene-2,2′-diyl))-alt-(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl)] (PEHONDTBT) was synthesized for the first time and through direct arylation polymerization (DAP) for use as p-donor material in organic solar cells.
Optimized reaction protocol leads to a donor-acceptor conjugated polymer in good yield, with less structural defects than its analog obtained from Suzuki polycondensation, and with similar or even higher molecular weight than other previously reported polymers based on the 2,3-dialkoxynaphthalene monomer.
Bilayer heterojunction organic photovoltaic devices with PEHONDTBT as the donor layer were fabricated to test their photovoltaic performance, affording low power-conversion efficiency in the preliminary studies.
Conjugated polymers with alternating electron-donor and electron-acceptor units along their backbones (D−A CPs) have been investigated during the last decades for a variety of applications in organic electronics, such as organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices [1,2,3], organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) [4,5], organic field-effect transistors (OFETs) [6,7], polymer-based organic batteries [8,9], and chemical sensors [10,11].
Dialkoxyphenylenes have been extensively studied as electron-donor building blocks in the synthesis of D–A CPs for optoelectronic applications [26,27,28].
In this study, the DAP strategy was applied to synthesize and characterize the novel Poly[(5,5’-(2,3-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)naphthalene-1,4-diyl)bis(thiophene-2,2′-diyl))-alt-(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl)] (PEHONDTBT) based on 2,3-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)naphthalene (EHON) and 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT), a well-known electron-acceptor building block for organic electronics [53,54,55,56].
The organic solutions were deposited by spin-coating, using 100 µL of the solution on each substrate (ITO|MoOx), at 2500 rpm for 10 s and then 3500 rpm for 40 s. The devices were completed with vacuum deposition of a 40 nm layer of fullerene (C60) as the donor layer, 8 nm of 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (Bphen) as the electron transport layer (ETL), and 2 nm of 8-hydroxyquinolinato lithium (Liq) as the electron-injecting layer (EIL).
To test the photovoltaic properties of PEHONDTBT, a bilayer heterojunction OPV device with B3a as the donor and C60 as the acceptor was the basis of this study.
Beyond this value, excitons generated by the bulk film cannot diffuse to the donor-acceptor interface for charge generation, filtering out photons absorbed at the interface.
The spectral response for the 26 nm device matches quite well the absorption spectra of the donor and acceptor materials, with a peak at ~450 nm, corresponding to the contribution of C60, and a second peak at ~500 nm, corresponding to the polymer (Figure 7b).
Regardless of the low efficiencies obtained, the polymer can be used as a donor material in bilayer heterojunction OPV devices.
Preliminary photovoltaic studies based on PEHONDTBT were carried out to demonstrate that polymer can be used as the p-donor layer in organic electronic devices.
The target of Merck Chemicals has been to develop high performance OPV donor polymers.
One of the products of this research program is the new series of blue donor polymers based around PBTZT‐stat‐BDTT‐8 from the Lisicon series, which offers: High solubility and uniform coatings from a range of solvents (including nonhalogenated).
This is one of the few commercially available polymers which is currently able to produce >9% PCE using an industrially relevant coating technique, off the shelf solution processed interlayers, and PC60BM as an acceptor material.
In the meantime, further engineering in terms of donor and acceptor materials and formulations are ongoing in order to enable any OPV market segments and printing processes with PBTZT‐stat‐BDTT‐8.
In addition to high performance, excellent processability is also critical when moving to fully solution‐based, R2R fabrication of OPV modules: PBTZT‐stat‐BDTT‐8 is able to reach high performance with commercially viable acceptor materials, such as PC60BM and using a variety of coating technologies, broad thickness range, different cell sizes, and with formulations in a variety of nonhalogenated solvents.
Here, we can only suppose that the different donor strengths of short/long alkyl chains, together with steric interactions, may be at the origin of the calculated differences.
When the light of high energy falls on the target material, the excitons generated in donor front layers are unable to separate into free charges properly.
Only low-energy photons with the power of long penetration depth can reach the donor-acceptor interface and then successfully generate the free charge.
The chemistry of donor molecules is represented by the help of molecular descriptors.
The easy and fast prediction of results can speed up the design process of new structures of donor materials.
The chemistry of donor molecules is represented by the help of molecular descriptors.
Y5 core structure is considered as high performance (NFA) non-fullerene acceptor.
The combination of Y5 electron deficient with five different donor polymers could lead to enhanced efficiency [47].
The photoactive layer in state-of-the-art organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells is most commonly a disordered mixture of a polymer donor and a fullerene-based acceptor.
From simulations, we find the energetic disorder of the HOMO level for PCDTBT:PC61BM blend to be 110 meV, which is in the range of the typically observed disorder values for OPV donor materials273334.
Judging by thermalization losses alone, PCDTBT is inferior to TQ1 as a polymer donor.
Although it has so far proven hard to find good alternatives to fullerene acceptors, the possibility to reduce electron thermalization loss, and hence gain in VOC, could be another motivation to continue this pursuit.
For OPV, VOC = (Eg–Eloss)/e, where Eg is the lowest optical bandgap of the donor or acceptor component and Eloss is photo energy loss.
Firstly, given the vertical structure, the extremely short transport distance would greatly promote the separation of photogenerated exciton at the donor-acceptor interface.
A quinoid mesomeric structure (D-A ↔ D+ = A−) forms across the major backbones of the polymer as a result of alternating donor–acceptor segments contributing to the pull–push driving force between neighboring units, resulting in a smaller optical EBG.
In order to improve exciton diffusion, dissociation, and charge transport, the nanoscale morphology ensures nanometer phase separation between donor and acceptor components in the active layer.
Additionally, the topics of fluorene and carbazole as donor units in conjugated polymers are covered.
The third generation of organic semiconductors has more complex structures with more atoms in the main chains of the conjugated polymers such as donor–acceptor (D–A) alternating copolymers along the main chains.
Incorporation of alternate electron-donor–acceptor units over the polymeric backbone decreases the EBG of the polymer, resulting in an enhancement of the absorption ability of the organic semiconducting material [25].
Moreover, incorporation of alternate donor–acceptor motifs into the polymer chains can facilitate intermolecular interactions [25,30,31].
This limitation causes decay of the exciton to the ground state without reaching the acceptor domain.
Therefore, the interfacial area between donor and acceptor material should be as large an area as possible to guarantee better exciton dissociation, hence the invention of the BHJ concept [46].
[29] introduced the concept of the BHJ device; it was constructed by blending two organic materials, i.e., a conjugated-polymer donor and fullerene-derivative acceptor.
Under this concept, the most common method of the formation of the active layer is to disperse the acceptor component in the conjugated polymer.
This approach highly distributes and maximizes the donor–acceptor interfacial area within the active layer ensuring efficient exciton dissociation over the whole extent of the active layer, thus maximizing the number of free charge carriers.
Moreover, this architecture secures the charge-percolated pathways to collect free charge carriers in the donor and acceptor at respective electrodes, completing the conversion of photon energy into electrical energy [28].
Regarding the BHJ device components, buckminsterfullerene C60 and its derivatives such as [6,6]-phenyl-C₆₁-butyric acid methyl ester PC61BM have been intensively used as a standard acceptor in BHJ solar cells along the conjugated polymer as typical donor [29].
The exciton dissociation rate of the photo-induced electron transfer takes place rapidly, facilitating the charge splitting at the donor–acceptor interfacial area as shown in Figure 11.
There is still a need to further enhance the p-type material toward an ideal donor; various conjugated polymers have been employed to fabricate the active layer for electronic applications.
developed co-polymers with alternating benzodithiophene–thienothiophene and achieved a BHJ solar cell with a high performance of 9.5%, using the fullerene (PC71BM) as acceptor into the active layer [62].
Recently, the PCE of organic photovoltaic devices has enhanced rapidly with the milestone value that reached to 18%, due to the development of novel acceptors (non-fullerene acceptors, NFAs) instead of PCBM in traditional organic solar cells as well as matching polymer donors.
The molecular structure of a polymer as donor domain mainly determines its morphological and optoelectronic characteristics of the OPV, which affects the photovoltaic performance and the ultimate PCE of the OPV device [63].
Many studies have investigated the effect of non-fullerene acceptors on OPV device performance.
Young and his group developed an organic bilayer device through design and fabrication of flexible OSC models using SMD2 as donor and NFAs as acceptor.
The organic solar cell (OSC) containing a new (PBDB-T-SF) polymer donor and a new small molecule (IT-4F) of non-fullerene as acceptor was introduced by Zhao et al.
Another study revealed that the fine modification of the flexible side chains of NFAs as acceptor such as BTP-4Cl-12 conducted on a thiophene-based polymer such as PBDB-TF as donor achieved a high device performance efficiency of PCE = 17%.
The optimal non-fullerene acceptor has a sufficient solubility and thus a favorable morphology, resulting in optimization of the chemical structures of the OPV that can improve device performance [67].
reported highly efficient devices using a new wide-band gap polymer (PBQx-TF) as donor and a new low-band gap of NFAs as acceptor.
An electron can be excited from a low energy level to a high energy level in the donor domain of the light-capturing film in order to form the exciton due to photo-absorption.
The CT state energy relies on the Coulombic attraction of the exciton that formed across at the donor–acceptor interface when the electron is transferred to the acceptor.
It is desirable for the electron donor to have a high ionization potential (IP), while the electron acceptor has a strong electron affinity (EA).
Nevertheless, continuously dropping the HOMO level of the polymer would inevitably increase the EBG of the conjugated polymer, resulting in a low Jsc value, which is thought todiminish the absorption ability of the donor.
Furthermore, a conjugated polymer (PT) containing electron-donor and -acceptor moieties as alternate repeat units (Figure 17) exhibits a significantly low EBG of 1.1 eV.
This approach necessitates copolymerizing alternating strong electron-donor monomers with electron-acceptor monomers along the same π-conjugated system of the polymeric chain in a so-called D–A [80].
It became clear that alternating donor–acceptor segments contribute to a pull–push driving force between adjacent units in order to facilitate π-electron delocalization and the formation of a QD mesomeric structure (D-A  D+ = A−) over the polymer’s main backbone, resulting in reduced optical EBG [29].
Moreover, it is assumed that ICT between the donor-HOMO and acceptor-LUMO reduces the energy EBG of the polymer, leading to a significant reduction in the EBG owing to improved interchain delocalization.
The HOMOs of the donor and acceptor segments (Figure 19) produce two new HOMOs due to the interaction of energy levels [29].
Similarly, the LUMOs of donor and acceptor moieties overlap to generate two new LUMOs of the D–A conjugated polymer, resulting in an increased magnitude of the conduction band after dispersing electrons to the new hybridized molecular orbitals.
These energy levels can be modulated by various combinations of donor and acceptor segments into the conjugated polymer in order to tailor the polymeric characteristics for electronic application [89,90].
The nanoscale morphology ensures nanometer phase separation between donor and acceptor components in the active layer that enhance the exciton diffusion, dissociation, and charge transport [32,78,95].
Maximizing the interfacial area between donor and acceptor within the active layer is a pre-requisite to optimize the dissociation of photo-generated excitons, so as to maintain bi-continuous phases in order to create charge pathways into the donor and acceptor domains to the contact electrodes [28,34,78].
A proper solvent for processing allows diffusion of the fullerene (acceptor) component into the polymer matrix and increases the roughness of the separation of phases in smaller fullerene domains [32,46].
The electron-accepting units are of equal importance in controlling the energy levels and band gaps of conjugated polymers to donor units.
Notably, the acceptor unit plays a critical role in determining the electronic structure of the semiconducting material according to the strategy of alternating D–A polymers.
Desirable narrow-EBG polymers require a deep LUMO energy level below −4 eV to ensure electron transport that is considerably influenced by the nature and structure of the acceptor unit [25,28].
Previous work in Iraqi’s group has synthesized four FNE and dibenzosilole-based copolymers by copolymerizing 2,7-fluorene and 2,7-dibenzosilole (DBS) with a new acceptor moiety, 4,7-di-2-thienyl-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-5,6-N-alkyl-dicarboxylic imide (DTBTDI) (Figure 21) [110].
The alternating copolymers based on 2,7-carbazoles have been reported as the donor moieties in D–A polymers for photovoltaic devices.
The polymers were prepared by copolymerizing 2,7-linked CZE units and 3,6-difluoro-2,7-linked CZE moieties flanked by thienyl units as electron-donor units and benzothiadiazole dicarboxylic imide (BTDI) as electron-acceptor units.
prepared PCDEBT (Figure 24) via the Sonogashira coupling reaction comprising 4,7-linked benzothiadiazole (BTDZ) units and 2,7-linked CZE using ethynelyene (ETN) spacers between the donor and acceptor moieties over polymeric chains [116].
This study exhibited that incorporation of acetylene linkers between the BTDZ electron-accepting units and CZE electron-donor units over polymer chains lead to wide a EBG (optical EBG 2.2 eV, electrochemical EBG 2.35 eV), as a result of the electron-accepting properties of the acetylene units.
This is a consequence of a decrease in electron delocalization and conjugation length between donor and acceptor moieties caused by the ETN linker.
The electronic and photovoltaic properties of D–A polymers based on ATN are highly dependent on the nature of the ATN units and the positions through which these units are linked with electron acceptor units in D–A polymers.
The bis-boronate ester of 9,10-phenyl substituted ATN flanked by thienyl groups as electron–donor units copolymerized with BTDZ dicarboxylic imide (BTDI) as electron–acceptor units.
The BTDZ repeat unit is considered to be one of the classical strong electron-acceptor units used in D–A polymers for PV devices.
However, the EBGs of BTDZ-based conjugated polymers, which range from 1.7 to 1.9 eV, are too high to harvest a large spectral portion of sunlight for PV applications as a result of the relatively weak electron-accepting ability of the BTDZ repeat unit compared to other acceptor units.
Thus, the modification of its molecular structure to obtain stronger electron-accepting properties is an attractive way towards more efficient polymers for use in bulk heterojunction solar cells using fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors [123].
This acceptor unit possesses high electron-withdrawing capability, which provides deep LOMO levels and broad absorption.
However, the polymer provided a low PCE of 1.31% in BHJ cells using PC71BM as an acceptor; this may be attributed to steric hindrance between NT and adjacent units that affected intermolecular interactions as well as an unfavorable morphology of the devices [125].
Moreover, replacing BTDZ acceptor units with NT units over the main chain of polymers lead to polymers with increased molecular weights and solubilities, which was attributed to the twisting of polymer chains out of planarity as a result of steric hindrance between naphthothiadiazole units and adjacent thiophene rings [127].
Pre-aggregation of the donor and acceptor polymer domains results in advantageous phase separation, which is similar to bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices.
Ideal morphological structures of OPV and environmentally friendly fabrication are both made possible by nanoparticle (NP) ink technology, which processes donor and acceptor materials to produce nanoparticles using green solvents such as water or alcohols [136,137].
The innovation of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has allowed OSCs devices to reach greater efficiency.
The PCE of BHJ PSCs, in which the photoactive layer consists of a mixture of acceptor and donor, has significantly increased in the last decade [152].
In addition, the constant advancements in donor and acceptor technology have brought ternary and tandem OSCs, which afforded PCEs exceeding 20%—a significant potential that competes with other solar technologies [157].
PTB7 as a donor polymer and PC71BM (>99%) as an acceptor material were purchased from 1-Material (Dorval, QC, Canada) and Solenne BV (Groningen, Netherlands), respectively, and used as received.
To fabricate the photoactive layer, PTB7 and PC71BM were used as the electron donor and electron acceptor, respectively.
Recently, bulk heterojunction solar cells consisting of a conjugated polymer (donor) and fullerene derivatives (acceptors) have inspired much scientific research owing to these reasons [8–9].
Investigations have been performed for exploring new donor materials for bulk heterojunction PV devices and the first drastic improvement in device efficiency was achieved by replacing the original donor, poly{[2-methoxy-5-(3,7-dimethyloctyloxy)-p-phenylene]vinylene} (MDMO-PPV, Figure 1), with a high-mobility conjugated polymer, P3HT [17–20].
However, sufficient investigations exploring new acceptor materials have not been performed.
However, the functions of DIO are still a subject of debate in both polymer and small molecule systems [18], but in the case of PTB7/PC71BM it is known to improve the charge transporting by increasing the final crystalline content of the film and allowing the donor phase more than one polymorph during the film formation [19,20].
Here, by a combined Raman, Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) investigation and first principles calculations of different N,N-dimethylanilino-terminated polyynes, we suggest that, upon charge transfer interaction with silver nanoparticles, the function of sp-carbon atomic wire can change from electron donor to electron acceptor by increasing the wire length.
The interaction of the investigated CAWs with metal nanoparticles can be interpreted as an intermolecular charge transfer whose direction depends on the wire length, moving from an electron acceptor to an electron donor system.
As noticed before, vibrational modes active in this region mainly involve the terminal group, indicating that charge transfer is affecting preferentially the end-groups, which act as electron donors.
This evidence seems to suggest that C2 displays an opposite behavior with respect to C8 in the charge transfer process, preferring to act as an electron donor.
This also agrees with chemical intuition, which suggests that sp-carbon atoms play the role of electron acceptors: indeed, just increasing the length of the chain from 2 to 4 sp-carbon atoms is already enough to turn the CAW from an electron donor to an electron acceptor, and this tendency consistently increases in longer molecules with a higher number of sp carbon atoms.
4a) indicate that C6/TCBD is very likely to act as an electron acceptor, even more than the C6 molecule with the same number of sp-carbon atoms.
The stronger electron acceptor behavior of C6/TCBD seems to contradict the lack of a significant modulation of the CC stretching modes along the sp-chain.
In other words, the C≡N groups of C6/TCBD, and the sp2 carbon network connecting them, act as preferential acceptors of the negative charge, which reduces the modulation of both the structure and the Raman activity of the sp carbon chain.
Therefore, the complete picture given by the analysis of Raman spectra, atomic charges and BLA of C6/TCBD model confirms the different charge transfer effect which is here observed, where TCBD group and not the sp-carbon domains acts preferentially as an electron acceptor in the intermolecular charge transfer with silver.Figure 5DFT-computed lengths of sp-carbon bonds in C8, C6/TCBD, and C6 for neutral and negatively charged species.
one acetylenic unit) the electron acceptor strength is low, due to the limited number of electronegative sp-carbon atoms, and the system is energetically favored to act as an electron donor to silver.
By increasing the number of sp-carbon atoms, CAWs become electron acceptors and withdraw electronic charge from the silver substrate.
Further investigations based on single molecule spectroscopy on other CAWs terminated by donor/acceptor groups may be helpful to deepen the understanding of the charge transfer phenomena in such systems.
Based on previous investigations, the interpretation of SERS spectra based on DFT calculations has been carried out by considering charged molecules as models: in order to evaluate in which direction the charge transfer between the metal nanoparticle and the polyyne is energetically favoured, the Eion energy value has been computed as17,32:\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${{\rm{E}}}_{{\rm{ion}}}={\rm{IP}}-{\rm{EA}}$$\end{document}Eion=IP−EAwhere IP is the ionization potential of the species acting as electron donor and EA is the electron affinity of the species acting as the electron acceptor in the charge transfer.
Excitons might travel between dots through multistep, phonon-assisted tunnelling, or homo-Förster resonance energy transfer that increases the lifetime of the acceptors.
The highest efficiency OPV at present use low-bandgap donor polymers, many of which suffer from problems with stability and synthetic scalability.
They also rely on fullerene-based acceptors, which themselves have issues with cost, stability and limited spectral absorption.
Here we present a new non-fullerene acceptor that has been specifically designed to give improved performance alongside the wide bandgap donor poly(3-hexylthiophene), a polymer with significantly better prospects for commercial OPV due to its relative scalability and stability.
develop a new acceptor and pair it with canonical P3HT to obtain 6.4% efficient and stable devices.
The efficiency of solution-processed organic photovoltaics (OPV) has been increasing rapidly, with the development of new high-performing benzodithiophene1234 and difluorobenzothiadiazole5 -based donor polymers in particular that give up to 10% power conversion efficiency (PCE) combined with fullerene acceptors in single junction cells, and over 11% PCE in tandem devices67.
Meanwhile, fullerene-free OPV has also been advancing, driven by the need to find alternative acceptors that overcome the high synthetic costs, limited optical absorption, poor bandgap tunability and morphological instability of fullerene-based acceptors such as phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC60BM) and its C71 analogue PC70BM (refs 8, 9, 10).
Multiple reports of efficiencies over 6% have now been published with acceptors based on fused ring diimide1112131415 and 1,1-dicyanomethylene-3-indanone1617 structures.
However, the majority of these record efficiencies are achieved with low-bandgap donor–acceptor polymers such as polythieno[3,4-b]-thiophene-alt-benzodithiophene (PTB7), which are known to present intrinsic difficulties to scale-up (thereby increasing costs) as well as suffering from issues with solubility18, device irreproducibility and photochemical instability1920.
Despite this, P3HT has been somewhat marginalized in recent years since the introduction of higher efficiency donor–acceptor polymers.
We recently published a new non-fullerene acceptor called (5Z,5′Z)-5,5′-{(9,9-dioctyl-9H-fluorene-2,7-diyl)bis[2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-7,4-diyl(Z)methylylidene]}bis(3-ethyl-2-thioxo-1,3-thiazolidin-4-one) (FBR) that had a straightforward and scalable synthesis and gave 4.1% PCE in P3HT devices, which at the time of writing was the highest reported efficiency for a fullerene-free device with P3HT33.
However, the short-circuit current (Jsc) in these devices was limited by recombination losses arising from the highly intermixed donor and acceptor phases, with FBR apparently unable to aggregate enough to form pure domains that would provide an appropriate charge percolation pathway.
We now present a new acceptor derivative that has been designed to address both the spectral overlap and morphological issues with FBR via replacement of the fluorene core with an indacenodithiophene unit.
The structure of the new IDTBR acceptors is shown in Fig.
The acceptors are both stable up to 350 °C (Supplementary Fig.
The absorption coefficient of IDTBR is also higher than those values reported for P3HT3738.This introduces an exciting new concept in the design of active layer materials for OPV, where the acceptor can be used as the primary low-bandgap light absorber, able to donate holes on light absorption in at least an equally efficient way as donor polymers traditionally donate electrons on light absorption.
The acceptors have very similar absorption profiles in solution with absorption maxima at 650 nm, and evidently both materials demonstrate greater absorption in the visible region relative to PC60BM (Supplementary Fig.
The EA of P3HT was measured for comparison to be 3.2 eV, allowing sufficient energetic offset for electron transfer between the donor and acceptor.
The energy offset between the IP of P3HT and both acceptors also appears to be suitable for efficient hole transfer.
Solar cells were fabricated using P3HT as the donor polymer due to the favourable energetic offsets mentioned above, as well as its widespread availability of P3HT and its potential for technological scale-up.
The active layer blends (donor-to-acceptor ratio of 1:1) were spin-coated from chlorobenzene solution under ambient conditions without the use of additives.
Thermal annealing (10 min at 130 °C) of these films was used to promote ordering of the polymer, as is typical in P3HT solar cells, as well as to induce acceptor crystallization which will be discussed later.
Both acceptors yielded high open-circuit voltage (Voc) values (0.7–0.8 V) relative to reference devices with PC60BM as the acceptor, which gave 0.58 V (Supplementary Fig.
5 and Supplementary Table 2) and this difference is accounted for by the smaller electron affinities of the IDTBR acceptors.
IDTBR also generates higher short-circuit currents compared to PC60BM with P3HT, which may be related to the increased visible wavelength absorption, and therefore greater photocurrent generation, of these new acceptors.
This can be understood, at least in part, by the broader external quantum efficiency (EQE) profile of O-IDTBR, which extends beyond 800 nm due to the red-shifted absorption of the acceptor after annealing.
This is among the highest efficiencies for fullerene-free devices as well as being the highest published efficiency for non-fullerene acceptor devices with P3HT.
As discussed above, one of the limiting factors of the previously published FBR acceptor was the intimately mixed morphology with P3HT due to the amorphous nature of the acceptor, leading to charge recombination losses and limiting device performance.
One of the design principles of IDTBR was therefore to increase the planarity of the backbone in order to induce crystallization and the formation of pure acceptor domains.
Specular X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to compare the crystallinity of the acceptors in films that were slightly thicker than those used in device fabrication (280–290 nm) in order to provide enough resolution to observe crystalline reflections by this method.
No such thermally induced crystallization occurs during the heating cycle of EH-IDTBR, explaining the different optical response of the acceptors to thermal annealing.
DSC measurements were also carried out on drop-cast blends of the acceptors with P3HT to determine the extent of crystallization within the blend.
8) shows only the melting endotherm for P3HT upon heating, which has been depressed (by 20 °C) and broadened due to the disruption in packing caused by the acceptor; however, no transition for the acceptor is observed which indicates a lack of pure acceptor domains in this blend.
By contrast, the heating cycles of O-IDTBR and EH-IDTBR blends with P3HT show the endothermic (and exothermic, in the case of O-IDTBR) transitions from the acceptor as well as the P3HT melt transition, demonstrating that these acceptors are more able to crystallize in the blend than FBR.
Furthermore, the melting temperature of P3HT is only depressed by 10 °C in the IDTBR blends, at the same heating rate, suggesting that the crystallization of P3HT is less disrupted by these acceptors.
Grazing incidence XRD (GIXRD) was used to further investigate the formation of pure donor and acceptor domains in the thin-film blends.
Carrier mobility of both donor and acceptor materials can be affected by morphology, field or carrier densities in bulk heterojunction active layers under operating conditions4243.
Both acceptors exhibited electron mobilities ∼3–6 × 10−6 cm2 V−1 s−1, while the hole mobility of EH-IDTBR:P3HT was found to be ∼3–7 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 (see Supplementary Fig.
The selected range in the PL measurement is mainly focused on the emission of the acceptor.
The films were excited at 680 nm to excite selectively the IDTBR acceptors, with the PL quenching being assigned to hole transfer from IDTBR excitons to P3HT.
It can be seen that the PL quenching is reasonably efficient for both systems, suggesting efficient hole transfer from acceptor excitons to the P3HT donor polymer.
Qualitatively it can be seen that the PLQE is slightly larger for the linear compared with the branched chain system, which further affirms that the increased film crystallinity of O-IDTBR allows for the formation of pure acceptor domains on a lengthscale comparable to the exciton diffusion length of O-IDTBR.
We note that this PL quenching contrasts with the almost quantitative acceptor PL quenching that was observed for FBR:P3HT blends, and that this is indicative of more pronounced phase segregation with both IDTBR acceptors compared with FBR33.
Transient spectra of EH-IDTBR and O-IDTBR blends, measured with the acceptors excited selectively at 680 nm, are shown in Supplementary Fig.
For both blends, polaron growth kinetics were observed on a similar timescale to acceptor exciton decay.
The rise of the polaron signal, and decay of acceptor absorption, fitted reasonably well to single exponential functions.
We have previously reported relatively slow (hundreds of picoseconds) polaron generation from acceptor excitons in polymer:PCBM blends, and correlated these with exciton diffusion within pure PCBM domains to the donor/acceptor interface47.
It is clear from this data that O-IDTBR:P3HT devices demonstrate the least degradation out of the materials studied, and that after an initial small drop in performance within the first 60 h, the PCE remains relatively stable and still gives 73% of the initial PCE even after 1,200 h. By contrast, the efficiency of the high-performance donor polymer devices deteriorates remarkably quickly and has fallen to zero by the end of the period of study.
This further demonstrates the potential of our new acceptor design for stable, scalable solar cells with practical operating lifetimes, and also gives strong support for the choice of P3HT as donor polymer in these devices.
One of the main issues with fullerene-based acceptors like PC60BM is that large-scale aggregates and crystals emerge from the meta-stable blend morphology over time.
15 show, large (1–20 μm) aggregates appear after 1 h annealing of the fullerene blend, whereas the O-IDTBR blend remains smooth and featureless after annealing, suggesting that this new acceptor offers improved morphological stability over fullerene acceptors, at least in terms of lateral diffusion.
In this work, we present a new small molecule electron acceptor IDTBR that is based on an indacenodithiophene core with benzothiadiazole and rhodanine flanking groups.
IDTBR is designed to give high performance with the donor polymer P3HT, chosen for its commercial scale-up potential both in terms of cost, scalability and stability.
In comparison with our previously published acceptor FBR, which had an essentially overlapping absorption profile with P3HT, this new acceptor has a significantly reduced optical bandgap owing to the more planar molecular backbone, delocalized electronic structure and push–pull molecular orbital hybridization, resulting in a UV–vis absorption profile that is now highly complementary to that of P3HT.
Furthermore, the absorption onset of this new IDTBR acceptor can be tuned by judicial choice of solubilizing alkyl chains on the IDT unit.
Relative to FBR, both IDTBR acceptors exhibit increased crystallinity and, crucially, formation of pure acceptor domains as evidenced by GIXRD and DSC studies.
This results in greater phase segregation for the linear analogue which is manifested in reduced PL quenching of the acceptor emission, as well as a delayed polaron generation and slower recombination dynamics in the O-IDTBR:P3HT blend.
These results strongly supports the use of P3HT, in conjunction with non-fullerene acceptors such as IDTBR, for high-efficiency, scalable and stable OPV for future technological applications.
Specular XRD was carried out on thin films of the acceptors spin-coated from CHCl3 solutions (30 mg ml−1, 600 r.p.m.)
Thin films of the acceptor were spin-coated onto ITO-coated glass substrates to be used as the working electrode, alongside a platinum mesh counter electrode and Ag/Ag+ reference electrode.
Active layer thicknesses were 75 nm (averaged over six devices) for both acceptor blends.
SCLC measurements were performed on electron-only devices of the structure ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Al/P3HT:acceptor/Al and on hole-only devices of the structure ITO/PEDOT:PSS/P3HT:acceptor/Au using a Paios (FLUXiM AG) measurement system.
High-efficiency and air-stable P3HT-based polymer solar cells with a new non-fullerene acceptor.
 Precise manipulation of organic donor‐acceptor interfaces using spacer layers is demonstrated to suppress interface recombination in an organic photovoltaic device.
These interface strategies are applicable to a wide variety of donor–acceptor systems, making them both fundamentally interesting and technologically relevant for achieving high efficiency organic electronic devices.
In organic photovoltaics (OPV), the photocurrent generation occurs via three basic photophysical processes: (a) Exciton generation in the donor (or acceptor) region and migration to a donor–acceptor interface; (b) charge transfer (CT) state formation from an exciton at the interface; and (c) CT state dissociation followed by charge collection at the device contacts.1 These processes are often expressed as recombination rates as illustrated in Figure  1 a: (i) exciton generation and migration to the interface, which competes with exciton recombination (K ER); (ii) exciton dissociation to CT state (K ED); (iii) CT state dissociation (or charge separation rate; K CS), which competes with CT state recombination (K CTR).
Therefore, controlling and manipulating these rates is critical for achieving maximum power conversion efficiency (PCE).2, 3 An efficient OPV device mandates that exciton dissociation to form the CT state (hole on donor and electron on acceptor) occurs faster than exciton recombination and that charge separation occurs at a rate faster than CT state recombination.4, 5 Recent reviews and high impact publications have elucidated that a long‐standing scientific challenge for achieving high efficiency OPVs is the prevention of CT state recombination at the donor–acceptor interface.3, 6, 7 OPVs based on bulk heterojunction (BHJ) architectures have been extensively studied over the past decade but the exact role of process parameters and structural features on recombination rates and mechanisms that suppress charge transfer remains ambiguous.5, 8 These reports have motivated studies on understanding interface charge transport dynamics, however critical questions such as suppression of CT state recombination, mechanism of charge separation, and role of interface microstructure at the donor–acceptor interface remains a major scientific challenge for the organic electronics community.
c) Strategies used in this study for inserting spacer layers at the P3HT/C60 interface and the energy level alignment of P3HT (donor) and C60 (acceptor) with respect to spacer levels.
Here, we demonstrate three independent interface modification strategies, applicable to a broad class of donor–acceptor systems that dramatically suppresses the interface CT state recombination.
We apply these strategies to a model bilayer OPV device that consists of ≈12 nm thick donor material [regio‐regular Poly(3‐hexylthiophene‐2, 5‐diyl) (P3HT)] and 30 nm of the acceptor material fullerene (C60).
We modified the donor–acceptor interface between these two materials by adding the following spacer layers: (a) lithium fluoride (LiF); (b) terthiophene‐derivative (O3); metal organic complexes (c) (bis(1‐phenylisoquinoline)‐(acetylacetonate) iridium (III) (Irpiq); and (d) tris(2‐phenylpyridine)iridium (Irppy).
These strategies can potentially serve as design principles for tailoring the recombination rates in donor–acceptor‐based optoelectronic devices and bring about an experimental protocol for achieving high efficiency OPVs and rejuvenate the nascent field of organic electronic devices.
Similar increase in the photocurrent was also observed for two other donor–acceptor polymer systems, (Tetracene/C60)10 and MtData/BPhen (Figure S4, Supporting Information).
These results clearly suggest that CT state recombination can be suppressed in an organic polymer system by modifying the donor–acceptor interfaces with a few nanometers of a specifically designed functional interface spacer layer.
We describe in Figure  2 a–d the measured thickness‐dependent photocurrent spectra for devices with: (a) LiF, (b) O3, (c) Irpiq, and (d) Irppy spacer layers with the goal of investigating the underlying mechanism that allows us to control the recombination rates at the donor–acceptor interface.
We suggest that the exciton dissociation occurs via a two‐step process: (a) fast energy transfer of the exciton from donor across O3 to the acceptor and (b) back cascading of the hole to the donor.
The presence of O3 works to spatially separate the electron and hole across the donor–acceptor interface, thereby strongly suppressing the CT state recombination.
Our photocurrent measurements support the recent ultrafast studies on donor–acceptor blends showing that exciton dissociation occurs via an excitation energy transfer mechanism where the exciton energy is resonantly transferred to the C60 followed by rapid hole transport from the C60 to the P3HT.13 The thickness dependence for O3 as the spacer layer is well described by using a 1/L 6 law, where, L is the thickness of the spacer layer (Figure 3b).
The stacking determines the degree of spatial separation that the electron (on donor) and hole (on acceptor) experience after the energy transfer process has reached equilibrium.
Increase in power conversion efficiency under AM1.5 standard solar radiation with functional spacer layers for our model bilayer device fabricated from P3HT (donor) and C60 (acceptor).
In order to validate these strategies beyond their demonstration in a model bilayer OPV device, we applied them to practically viable bulk heterojunction architectures using three different combinations of donor–acceptor material systems.
P3HT (donor), spacer layers (O3, Irpiq, and Irppy) and indene–C60 bisadduct (ICBA, acceptor) were blended to form the active layer.
Similar results were also obtained for two other donor–acceptor systems: (i) P3HT (donor) and [6,6]‐phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM, acceptor) and (ii) Poly[[9‐(1‐octylnonyl)‐9H‐carbazole‐2,7‐diyl]‐2,5‐thiophenediyl‐2,1,3‐benzothiadiazole‐4,7‐diyl‐2,5‐thiophenediyl] (PCDTBT):PC71BM are described in Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information.
These experiments demonstrate that the interface design strategies outlined here indeed lead to a dramatic increase in the overall PCE independent of the device architecture or the donor–acceptor polymer system.
As a result, Ag acted as a shallow acceptor vacancy and could form p‐type conduction; hence, did not show better defect tolerance.
 A series of perylenediimide (PDI) dimers are evaluated as acceptors for organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells.A series of perylenediimide (PDI) dimers are evaluated as acceptors for organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells.
Thus, photocyclization of the thiophene-linked dimer 2,5-bis-[N,N′-bis-perylenediimide-1-yl]-thiophene (T1) affords the twisted acceptor [2,3-b:2′,3′-d]-bis-[N,N′-bis-perylenediimide-1,12-yl]-thiophene (T2), while photocyclization of the thienothiophene-linked dimer, 2,5-bis-[N,N′-bis-perylenediimide-1-yl]-thienothiophene (TT1) affords the planar acceptor [2,3-b:2′,3′-d]-bis-[N,N′-bis-perylenediimide-1,12-yl]-thienothiophene (TT2).
While charge transport is efficient in bulk-heterojunction blends of each dimer with the polymeric donor PBDTT-FTTE, in the case of the twisted dimers ring fusion leads to a significant decrease in geminate recombination, hence increased OPV photocurrent density and power conversion efficiency.
Organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices offer a potential avenue for inexpensive, mechanically flexible, and environmentally friendly solar energy conversion.1–10 The most efficient OPV active layers are based on blending an electron donating material with an electron accepting material to form a phase-separated bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) structure, although both bilayer and single component active layer organic devices have also been demonstrated.11–16 By far the most heavily used acceptor materials in BHJ devices are fullerene derivatives due to their exceptional charge transport properties.
Devices based on fullerenes have achieved internal quantum efficiencies near 100%, and fill factors near 80%.12,17,18 Fullerenes, however, are expensive to synthesize, difficult to modify, and air-sensitive, limiting their large-scale applicability/manufacturability.19,20 Because of these challenges, much recent OPV research has shifted towards developing efficient non-fullerene acceptors.21–31 One of the most successful and widespread classes of non-fullerene acceptors are derivatives of perylenediimide (PDIs).
In fact, the first reported bilayer OPV was fabricated using a PDI derivative as the acceptor material.16 However, until recently, PDI derivatives have performed poorly in OPV devices due to their tendency to crystallize in large domains and thus form excimers prior to charge separation.38,39 The principal strategy for overcoming these difficulties has been to design PDI derivatives that are predominantly amorphous in the solid state, with the exception of a recent report from this laboratory.40 Introducing amorphous characteristics can be accomplished by disrupting the tendency of PDI to π-stack either by utilizing bulky substituents or twisting the structures of PDI dimers from planarity.27,41–44 Twisted PDI dimers have been the most successful strategy to date, achieving power conversion efficiencies (PCE) above 8%.24,29–31,45–50
Although the efficiencies of OPVs based on twisted PDI dimers are promising and have advanced dramatically, in most cases they remain lower than those of the corresponding fullerene-based devices.10,12,14 One reason for this lower efficiency is that even the highest performing PDI derivatives are plagued by geminate recombination processes, a problem which is almost entirely overcome by the tendency of fullerenes to rapidly form free charge carriers.40,49,51 In contrast to the predictions of Onsager–Braun theory, BHJs using fullerenes as the acceptor material have been shown to undergo ultrafast charge transfer, resulting in radical pairs with no detectable coulombic binding energy.18,52–54 These findings have been attributed to delocalization of the anion formed after charge transfer between donor materials and fullerene clusters, leading to more rapid charge separation.18,52,55 This same effect, however, is not observed in PDI derivatives, leading to a measurable charge separation barrier.56,57 This difference in charge separation mechanism results from the anisotropic nature of PDI derivatives and their inability to couple to neighboring molecules in three-dimensions as efficiently as spherical fullerenes.58 Therefore, designing PDI based molecules capable of increased anion delocalization in the solid state is a plausible strategy for developing high-performance OPV acceptor materials.
OPVs utilizing twisted dimers, T2 and Ph2a, blended with the polymer donor PBDTT-FTTE as the active layer are shown here to exhibit significant increases in performance versus those fabricated with the analogous unfused dimers, T1 and Ph1, respectively, in agreement with Jen, and together with the present results argue that rigidity of the fused molecules yields improved BHJ morphologies, decreased energetic disorder, as well as increased LUMO delocalization and electron mobility.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that ring fusion is a promising design principle for dimeric PDI BHJ acceptor materials so long as π-stacking is sufficiently disrupted to avoid excessive crystallinity.
Molecular structures of the PDI acceptors and the donor polymer PBDTT-FTTE.
Cyclic voltammetry and differential pulse voltammetry were performed using a CH Instruments Model 622 electrochemical workstation on 1.0 mM solutions of all PDI acceptor materials in anhydrous CH2Cl2 with 100 mM Bu4N+ PF6– as the supporting electrolyte.
OPV cells were fabricated with an inverted device structure, ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoO3/Ag, according to published literature procedures.12 The active layers were spin-coated from solutions of 1 : 2.25 (w/w) donor : acceptor in chloroform with a polymer concentration of 10 mg mL–1.
All DFT calculations were carried out using ORCA.58 For every PDI acceptor molecule synthesized in this study, geometry optimization was performed at the B3LYP/DZVP level of theory using the conductor-like screening model (COSMO) to model the dielectric environment.69 For the COSMO calculation, a static dielectric constant of ε = 3 was chosen as representative of the solvation environment of each molecule.
Using a recently developed computational methodology,58 the bulk charge transport network properties of all PDI acceptor materials were screened, yielding calculated values of the Kirchoff transport index characterizing the strength and robustness of the charge transport networks formed by aggregates of the present PDI-acceptors.
The present new PDI acceptors were synthesized according to a common strategy (Scheme 1).
This suggests that the intramolecular coupling is much weaker in the twisted structures than in the planar structures, consistent with previously reported data for fused PDI dimers.31,49 In PBDTT-FTTE:PDI blend films, the absorption of the polymer donor is observed above 600 nm while the acceptors absorb most strongly below 600 nm.
For the most part, the absorbances of the individual donor and acceptor components in the blend films are unchanged, resulting in absorption spectra which resemble the sum of the spectra of the individual components; however in the case of T1 and T2 the polymer absorbance is red-shifted by about 20 nm in the blend, suggesting the presence of a charge transfer (CT) interaction (Fig.
Optical absorption spectra of the PDI acceptors in solution (a–c) and as thin films, and donor polymer PBDTT-FTTE as a thin film (d–f solid lines).
The reduction potentials of each molecule were measured electrochemically and used to estimate the LUMO levels of the acceptors (Fig.
DPV profiles (left) and energy levels (right) of the present PDI acceptor molecules.
SCLC electron carrier mobilities were measured for films of each acceptor blended with PBDTT-FTTE (Table 1).
OPV devices were fabricated from each PDI acceptor using an inverted architecture (ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoO3/Ag) and PBDTT-FTTE as the donor material.
The open circuit voltages (VOC) of the materials vary predictably with variations in the acceptor LUMO levels in that there is only a slight enhancement in VOC for the fused structures.
Moreover, contributions from both the donor and acceptor moieties can be seen in the EQE spectra, which closely track the absorption spectra of the blends (Fig.
1), suggesting that both donor and acceptor contribute to the photocurrent.
Active layers were cast from 1 : 2.25 donor : acceptor chloroform solutions that contained 1% DIO by volume.
 J–V curves (a–c) and EQE spectra (d–f) of OPV devices based on T1 and T2 (a and d), Ph1, Ph2a, and Ph2b (b and e), and TT1 and TT2 (c and f) blended with the donor polymer PBDTT-FTTE.
This effect can also be easily seen in the GIWAXS scattering images of the pristine acceptor films (Fig.
This model must be treated as a pragmatic approximation since it does not distinguish between excitons on the PDI acceptor and excitons on the donor polymer and also does not account for energy transfer.
In the case of Ph2b and TT2, this benefit is potentially offset by the fact that planar acceptors are capable of packing tightly with the polymer donor, resulting in higher coulombic binding energies and therefore a greater likelihood of forming a trapped CT state.84,85 When combined with the increased crystallinity and excimer formation in Ph2b and TT2, this increase in geminate recombination likely explains the observed trend in performance.
Ring fusion is found to increase the electronic coupling between PDI acceptor molecules, resulting in increased electron mobilities and increased LUMO energies.
While the increased LUMO energy leads to increased VOCs for PBDTT-FTTE-based BHJ OPVs based on ring-fused dimeric acceptors, the major changes in device performance reflect changes in FF and JSC.
These results are consistent with recent reports suggesting that ring fusion is capable of leading to increased anion delocalization and electron mobility.30,48 Noticeably, these properties only lead to improved performance in OPVs when the acceptor molecules are twisted, resulting in amorphous films and preventing the formation of excimers and trap states.
Titania can not only harvest ultraviolet light with wavelength shorter than 380 nm, but also is an n-type semiconductor, which can be used as an electron acceptor offering a pathway for electronic transmission in solar cells3.
P3HT is a p-type semiconductor polymer and has high hole mobility (10−4~10−2 cm2 V−1s−1); it is usually used as an electron donor in polymer solar cells.
To boost the photovoltaic attributes of organic photovoltaic cells, seven dithienyl diketopyrropopyrrole (TDPP) donor-based A-π-D-π-A (acceptor-bridge-donor-bridge-acceptor) type molecules (TM1–TM7) were formulated by modifying the electron accepting ends of the reference molecule (TMR).
Thus, all of our proposed structures are perceived to be superior to the reference in terms of the maximum possible solar energy yield in solar cells with bulk heterojunctions, as determined by analyses of our designed molecules for the aforementioned parameters.The investigated non-fullerene acceptor molecules TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4, TM5, TM6, and TM7 that are fashioned by making alterations at the terminal position of reference molecule TMR demonstrate significant absorption in the visible region.
Since their invention in the mid-19th century, OPVs have been employed to transform solar energy into electricity.12 Initially, solar cells with thin layers of acceptor and donor were utilized, followed by solar cells with thick layers of acceptor and donor, but both of these were surpassed by BHJ solar cells in which both acceptor and donor layers are in maximum contact with each other, allowing for maximum interaction of both at a large interfacial area.
These electron–hole pairs dissociate at the acceptor–donor interface and proceed towards their respective electrodes where they generate electricity.13–15
Due to their low reorganization energy and by association high mobility, fullerene acceptors (FAs) provide a remarkable 11% efficiency in OSCs.
However, after discovering the drawbacks of FAs, their use has been avoided, and thus NFAs (non-fullerene acceptors) have been researched to overcome the drawbacks of FAs.
Seven photovoltaic compounds, designated TM1–TM7, were formulated by performing side-chain engineering of different acceptor groups at the peripheries of the A-π-D-π-A type23 reference TMR.
These acceptor groups were selected for their prominent attributes in various computational studies and are known to have high electron-withdrawing abilities, along with significant conjugation in them, which aids in effective transfer of charge density towards them.24 The acceptors utilized were 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)malononitrile (TM1), 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile (TM2), 6-cyano-1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester (TM3), 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester (TM4), 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile (TM5), 2-(6,7-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydrocyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile (TM6), and 2-(1-chloro-5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydrocyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)malononitrile (TM7).
Utilizing these acceptor moieties broadened the spectrum of absorption.
All of the investigated molecules had dihedral angles within the range of −0.653° to 0.007°, indicating the absence of any twisting between the non-fused thiophene bridges and the peripheral acceptors, thereby indicating that all structures have planar geometry.
The minimum band gap can be achieved by increasing the HOMO of the donor, while decreasing the LUMO.
The results show that the presence of the most electron-deficient units (acceptors) enhances charge mobility by decreasing the energy-gap values between the FMOs.43,44
The HOMO states of TMR and TM1–TM7 have almost the same degree of charge consistency in both the spacer and donor segments.
Acceptor moieties had a small amount of charge consistency, and the substituted methyl groups in the central donor fragment did not experience electron density dispersion, due to their vertical alignment with respect to the molecules' horizontal plane.
While the electron density is uniformly distributed in the donor, spacer as well as acceptor regarding the LUMOs of TMR, TM1, TM2, and TM7, with the exception of the methyl substituents in the acceptors and donor (core) section, the LUMOs of TM3, TM4, TM5, and TM6 revealed greater charge consistency over the donor core and spacer fragments but reduced charge consistency over the electron-accepting entities at the end-capped portions of the molecules.
Because of the high density of charges in the LUMO of the acceptor and the HOMO of the donor, TM1 and TM7 are the most efficient in the interface of the OSC active layer.
Also, the minute degree of charge density in the LUMO of donor and HOMO of acceptor could be due to the fairly planar geometry of the molecules.
This is because of the existence of a potent end-capped electron-withdrawing acceptor entity.
The TM5 and TM6 structures with their strongest electron-deficient acceptor units at the terminal position have highest fos and as a result enhanced absorption and charge transformations.
Furthermore, the acceptors used in this research work are known to have a prominent effect on the dipole moment.
The two fluoro-substituted malononitrile (TM1) groups significantly enhance the dipole moment due to enhanced π–π stacking found in them.56 Similarly, the acceptors of TM3 due to their polar character tend to increase the dipole moment as well.57 However, it should be kept in mind that the dipole moment of any symmetrical molecule despite a strongly electron-withdrawing group can reduce significantly due to the cancellation of opposite poles.58 However, regardless of their prominent symmetry, all the molecules except TM5 demonstrate better dipole moment than TMR.
These findings suggest that the modification of molecules with strong acceptor fragments may be advantageous in the future for more efficient OSCs.
Donor cores, acceptors, and spacers are represented in the DOS plots by blue, red, and green lines, correspondingly (Fig.
It was discovered that the donor core made significant contributions towards the HOMO's improvement, spacers showed moderate and acceptors least involvement in HOMO elevation in the case of reference TMR and constructed structures TM1–TM7.
For all our designed molecules (TM1–TM7) the percentage of donor involvement in the HOMO is greater than that for TMR.
The results of FMO and the DOS are highly consistent with one another; the percentage of acceptors participating in the LUMO of TM1–TM7 is higher than in TMR, and it is lower in the case of the donor core.
So, TM2 is the best because its donor moieties contribute the most (59.6%) to the HOMO.
Similarly, TM7's acceptor fraction contributes 55.3% to the LUMO.
Estimated values for percentage contributions of acceptor, donor core as well as spacer of TMR and TM1–TM7 in FMO formation
The results show that the introduction of additional acceptor groups to the TM2 and TM5 molecules has improved the molecular charge transfer properties.
Another parameter which has proved effective to evaluate the degree of charge transfer between donor and acceptor sites is molecular electrostatic potential (MEP).63 MEP is the 3-D visualization of charge density at different positions of a molecule of interest.
Here the red color represents negative charge density which is certainly over the acceptor region where there may be the electronegative atoms present.
Alternatively the blue color represents positive charge which is mainly over the donor portion (central core) and the neutral area with zero charge is revealed by a green shade.
7 illustrates that the thiophene spacers are neutral parts of the molecules revealed by green color and the terminal acceptor groups are red indicating that they have a higher negative charge due to the presence of unsaturated electronegative atoms: oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur.
The tailored TM2 compound expresses more of a blue color over the acceptors and methyl groups of the donor part which reveals that these parts have more positive IP.
TDM determines the connection between excited donors and acceptors of molecules.67,68 TDM study of TMR and the designed molecules (TM1–TM7) was carried out using the desired hybrid DFT functional.
Donor core (C), spacer (S) and acceptor (A) were the three divided slots for both the model molecule (TMR) as well as manufactured molecules (TM1–TM7).
A more stable and localized charge is found in the donor region (core) of the model (TMR) along with all the constructed TM1–TM7 compounds.
Advantageous localized electron density (diagonal) and charge transfer (off-diagonal) properties are present in the newly formulated molecules (TM1–TM7), which also have a more uniform charge on the acceptor section.
In the case of molecules TM3 and TM4, the donor core and spacer mainly reveal diagonal as well as off-diagonal behavior, while the acceptor fragment mainly demonstrated off-diagonal behavior.
Both the localized electron density and charge transfer were shown by all the segments (acceptor, spacer, and core) of the TM5, TM6, and TM7 chromophore.
As faster exciton dissociation is necessary for OSCs to be built, the TDM plots demonstrated significant diagonal as well as off-diagonal charge transfer from electron-rich center (donor) to electron-poor center (acceptor).
TDM analysis and a declining trend in the interaction coefficient show that the tailored compounds are superior at transferring charge from the donor moiety to the acceptor fragment through thiophene spacers.
To attain a value of VOC, the value of energy of HOMO of the donor must be smaller and the LUMO of the acceptor should be higher, which results in reduced band gap which is the desired condition for solar cells from any aspect.
The VOC has direct relation with the effectiveness of OSCs: the higher the VOC the greater will be the efficiency.73 Visual representation of a comparison between the LUMO of the acceptor molecule with the HOMO of the donor polymer PTB7-Th to ascertain VOC is shown in Fig.
Amongst all the newly developed structures, TM5 (0.99 V) and TM6 (0.87 V) have been proved as molecules with highest VOC due to the involvement of the end-capped electron-withdrawing acceptor entities, from which it is concluded that TM5 and TM6 exhibit more charge delocalization, conjugation, and higher PCE than TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4, and TM7 molecules.
The effects of end-capped acceptors on the charge transfer ability as well as on structural and photochemical activities of TMR have been investigated using state-of-the-art quantum chemical and quantum mechanical methods.
Seven different acceptor molecules (TM1–TM7) were formulated via the end-cap engineering of the reference TMR.
Light absorption, electron–hole RE, nucleophilic as well as electrophilic sections inside the molecule (MEP), band gap between FMOs, involvement of acceptor and donor in FMOs (DOS), and TDM were all investigated.
a reduced band gap in the range of 1.87–1.78 eV, a dipole moment that is larger than that of TMR in both the examined phases (gas and solvent), lower hole as well as electron REs, and maximum photon absorption (799 nm in gas phase and 878 nm in chlorobenzene solvent), which were very impressive, thanks to modifications by end-capped acceptor moieties.
Therefore, it is suggested that all formulated candidates are promising for use in OSCs in order to obtain high PCE in the near future, since almost all of the unique acceptor molecules TM1–TM7 have better optical and electrical characteristics compared to the reference TMR.
We demonstrate large-area (1 cm2) organic photovoltaic (OPVs) devices based on bis(tri-n-butylsilyl oxide) silicon phthalocyanine (3BS)2-SiPc as a non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) with low synthetic complexity paired with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as a donor polymer.
Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) reveal that the Alt-Sq processing of the active layer leads to a BHJ-like morphology with a well-intermixed donor–acceptor component in the active layer while providing a simpler processing approach to low-cost and large-scale OPV production.
Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) have gained significant attention due to their potential use in emerging applications such as solar sails, semitransparent curtains, and building integration.1−4 Over the last five years, the use of non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) has enabled a significant increase in the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPVs reaching over 19%.5,6 However, the majority of the champion non-fullerene acceptor materials involve multiple complex synthetic steps and result in often low yields, which will limit large-scale manufacturing and impact the cost.7−9 The commercialization viability of OPV technology depends on the “golden triangle” rule of high PCE, long-term stability, and low cost.
P3HT is one of the most popular donor polymers used in OPV applications due to its stability and ease of synthesis on a kilogram scale.12,13 P3HT also has good solubility in many nonhalogenated solvents, providing a great opportunity for large-scale commercialization of P3HT-based OPVs.9,14−16 NFA-based small molecules have been successfully paired with P3HT to obtain high-performance OPVs.
Phthalocyanines are common dye molecules which have been utilized as a semiconducting material in organic light emitting diodes,17,18 organic thin film transistors19−21 and organic photovoltaics.22−27 Phthalocyanines (Pcs) are already synthesized on the ton scale annually and found in everyday textiles, paints, colorants, and inks.28 Silicon phthalocyanine ((R)2-SiPc) are emerging as an exciting class of phthalocyanines due to their ability to enable n-type operation in electronics and their axial groups provide a handle to tune the physical and thermodynamic properties such as miscibility, solubility, nucleation, and solid-state arrangement.29−33 In terms of synthetic complexity (SC), SiPcs have been reported with an SC index of 12, almost five times lower than those of high-performing NFAs such as Y6 (SC of 59) and ITIC (SC of 67).34 Traditionally, (R)2-SiPcs have been utilized as ternary additives in donor–acceptor OPVs, providing more than 20% increase in photocurrent due to the extended solar absorption25,35−38 Recently, (R)2-SiPc derivatives have also been used as NFAs with different donor polymers P3HT, PTB7, and PBDB-T and achieved high power conversion efficiencies (>4%).39,40 These promising results demonstrate a great potential for low cost OPVs through the use of materials that have low synthetic complexity.
We report the large-area (1 cm2) OPVs based on P3HT and (3BS)2-SiPc NFAs acceptors using green solvents and a favorable layer-by-layer solution deposition technique by blade coating.
The films and resulting devices are thoroughly characterized providing morphological properties, charge transport properties, and donor–acceptor vertical stratification.
For BHJ films, the donor–acceptor blend ink was prepared by dissolving P3HT (17 mg/mL) and R2-SiPc with a 1:0.6 donor–acceptor weight ratio, in nonhalogenated solvents: o-xylene, TMB, and toluene.
The donor and acceptor inks were prepared separately for the sequential bilayer process.
In Sq devices, the (3BS)2-SiPc) acceptor layer was first blade-coated on top of the ZnO layer, then sequentially, P3HT was coated at different blade speeds.
The chemical structures of P3HT and (3BS)2-SiPc, which were used as the donor and the acceptor, respectively, in the fabrication of OPVs are shown in Figure 1a.
The highest occupied molecular orbital/lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (HOMO/LUMO) energy levels of P3HT and (3BS)2-SiPc) were taken from the literature and represented in Figure 1b.36,42 Three different active layer configurations were optimized for device fabrication: (1) single bulk heterojunction (BHJ) layer, (2) standard sequential (Sq) bilayer deposition (acceptor then donor), and (3) alternate sequential (Alt-Sq) bilayer deposition (donor then acceptor), as shown in Figure 1c.
(a) Chemical structure of the P3HT donor and (3BS)2-SiPc non-fullerene acceptor materials, (b) energy level diagram of P3HT and (3BS)2-SiPc, and (c) schematic representation of inverted OPV device architecture with three types of active layer deposition of bulk heterojunction (BHJ), sequential (Sq), and alternate sequential (Alt-Sq) by blade coating.
BHJ OPVs of (3BS)2-SiPc and P3HT were previously optimized to PCE = 3.6% with an equal donor–acceptor weight ratio (1:1) using the spin-coating process, which served as a starting point for the optimization of this blade-coating process.39
The molecular packing and the transportation pathways have a significant impact on the charge carrier transport in OPVs.51 The reduced μh and the improved μe in the optimal Alt-Sq devices are likely due to a better vertical phase separation of donor–acceptor in the active layer compared to BHJ and Sq devices, which will be discussed below together with other morphology parameters.
We also explored the composition of donor–acceptor in the vertical direction throughout the BHJ, Sq, and Alt-Sq films, using time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) (Figure 6a–c).
P3HT was tracked using sulfur ions (S–) and silicon ions (SiCN–) for the (3BS)2-SiPc acceptor, ZnO ions (ZnO–) for the electron transport layer (ETL) layer, and indium oxide ions (InO2–) for the ITO layer.
Alt-Sq deposition, where the acceptor is deposited sequentially on the top of the polymer, led to the best device performance, balanced charge carrier mobilities, and favorable morphology.
Blade-coating BHJ and Alt-Sq active layers with o-xylene solution led to similar vertical distribution of the donor–acceptor morphology, suggesting that similar performance can be obtained by both techniques.
This situation described here represents a neutral O vacancy defect, which has two donor levels in the bandgap.
Acting as a double donor, the maximum charge of an oxygen vacancy is 2+, which indeed has been found as the most stable charge state in previous work.58
Value of the data•Detail information about how to control the temperature of substrates to tune the aggregation of acceptors in the active layers.•Give more convincing data for the film morphology analysis of blend films fabricated from substrates with different temperature.•Give detail information about how to fabricate non fullerene solar cells, hole-only and electron-only devices.
Detail information about how to control the temperature of substrates to tune the aggregation of acceptors in the active layers.
To achieve a purpose substrate temperature, the substrates and micro pipette tips were elevated to 30 or 45 oC by storage on a hotplate for 5 min, then the donor/acceptor mixed solutions were quickly pipetted to a heated substrate and spin-coated to form an active layer.
We developed new bithiophene extended electron acceptors based on m-alkoxythenyl-substituted IDIC with three different end groups, named as IDT-BT-IC, IDT-BT-IC4F, and IDT-BT-IC4Cl, respectively.
A differential scanning calorimetry thermogram analysis revealed that all the new acceptors have a crystalline character.
Using these acceptors and a bulk heterojunction structure using PBDB-T, inverted organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices were fabricated, and their performance was analyzed.
Due to the red shift of the electron acceptors, the OPV active layer particularly, which was derived from IDT-BT-IC4F, exhibited increased absorption at long wavelengths over 800 nm.
When IDT-BT-IC4F was used as the electron acceptor, the highest Jsc and PCE values were achieved.
In general, OPVs are prepared by constructing a bulk heterojunction (BHJ), which is an active layer comprising a blend of an electron donor (D) and electron acceptor (A), via a solution process, which provides large-area OPVs using the roll-to-roll process [4,5,6,7,8].
In contrast with the intensive research that has been conducted to obtain donor materials, the development of acceptor materials has lagged behind because fullerene derivatives are commonly used as electron acceptors.
Fullerene derivatives are characterized by a fully conjugated sp2-hybridized structure, which provides excellent electron transport and acceptor capacity and promotes electron delocalization.
Consequently, the development of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has been actively pursued.
Representative non-fullerene acceptors are BTP-eC9 [10], BTP-4F-PC6 [11], Y6 [12], and IDIC [13].
With high absorption coefficient due to their planar two-dimensional structure, NFAs can be easily tuned to achieve energy compatibility and optical complementarity with various donor polymers, affording a wide solar spectrum coverage.
As a donor material, poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophene-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl) benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dionz) (PBDB-T) was used.
In particular, the contribution from non-radiative Vloss should be reduced, which is mainly affected by the energetic interactions between the donor polymer and acceptors at the interfaces.
PBDB-T was widely used as the photoactive layer as a donor material with NFA-based acceptor materials such as ITIC and IDIC.
In summary, new bithiophene extended electron acceptors based on an m-alkoxyphenyl-substituted IDIC with three different end groups were developed, and their optical properties and thermal stability were analyzed.
The OPV devices showed the highest efficiency (3.37%) when IDT-BT-IC4F was used as an electron acceptor.
In DSSCs, it has been employed as a dye sensitizer (which acts as both a light absorber and electron donor) [11], where it is attached to a semiconductor anode surface, which consists of an inorganic mesoporous oxide layer acting as electron acceptor.
The development of dye sensitizer can be grouped in two main sets: (a) dyes based on the ruthenium (II) complex and (b) metal-free organic donor–acceptor dyes [13].
The results also showed a less strong donor-acceptor interaction between a LP of O2 with Ti3 atoms in the cluster for C and F. Additionally, an interaction LP of O2 with H4 in the TiO2 cluster for B and E, which is characteristic of hydrogen bonds [60].
Other experimental approaches to reduce Rs can be achieved through a well interplayed donor-acceptor interfaces [28, 29] or by minimizing the contact resistance between the electrodes and active layer [30].
Another internal electrical parameter affecting the performance of solar panels is the shunt or parallel resistance (Rp) of the devices, which takes into account the leakage of current at the donor-acceptor and active layer-electrode boundaries.
It was practically evidenced that the insertion of PEDOT:PSS layer between the ITO and donor interface in organic solar cells (OSCs) has led to maximizing the value of Voc [25, 33].
Two theories are accentuated to define the origin of Voc, which are formulated from the difference of valence and conduction band levels between the donor and accepter materials as well as the difference of work functions between the top and bottom electrodes, respectively [34, 35].
This is happened because of the enhanced donor-acceptor interface between the moieties constituents, which in turn facilitates efficient transport of free charge carriers.
In support to the simulated results, experimental evidences showed that interplaying donor-acceptor ratio did not produce any obvious change in the Voc despite that the variation in Rp was appeared at values greater than 14.5 kΩ (290 Ω.cm2) [52].
Poisson equation:(1)dEdx=−d2Ψdx2=qε[p(x)−n(x)+ND+(x)−NA−(x)+ρt(x)−nt(x)]where E is the electric field, Ψ is the electrostatic potential, q is the electron charge, ε is the dielectric constant of the semiconductor material, p (n) is the hole (electron) concentration, NA− (ND+) is the density of the ionized acceptors (donors), nt (pt) is the trapped electron (hole) and x is the position coordinate.
The impact of fullerene side chain functionalization with thiophene and carbazole groups on the device properties of bulk-heterojunction polymer:fullerene solar cells is discussed through a systematic investigation of material blends consisting of the conjugated polymer poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2‴-quaterthiophen-5,5‴-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD) as donor and C60 or C70 fulleropyrrolidines as acceptors.
The active layer in a OPV device is made of a blend of a p-type polymer and an n-type acceptor forming a bicontinuous interpenetrating network, known as bulk-heterojunction (BHJ).
The n-type acceptors used in OPVs can be either fullerene derivatives or non-fullerene small molecules.
Although the performance of OPVs using non-fullerene acceptors has already outperformed its fullerene-based counterpart, the research in polymer:fullerene solar cells using new ‘non-standard’ fullerenes remains very active [16,17,18,19,20,21,22].
These two fullerenes, PC61BM and PC71BM, are now utilized as reference acceptors for all kinds of other fullerene acceptors, because of their good solubility, high electron mobility, and high chemical stability.
Some important examples of alternative fullerene acceptor families include dihydronaphthyl-based fullerenes [34,35,36,37] and fulleropyrrolidines [38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47].
One of the first reports on the use of fulleropyrrolidine acceptors in OPVs, was made by Lee et al.
Interestingly, the authors also observed that although the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of all the fulleropyrrolidines closely resemble each other and those of PC61BM, devices with P3HT displayed a large variety of PCEs ranging from 0.02% to 2.41% depending on the acceptor.
Fulleropyrrolidine derivatives with one or two thiophene units performed better as acceptor materials than those with three or four thiophene units.
In this work, we synthesize eight novel thiophene- and carbazole-substituted N-methyl-fulleropyrrolidine acceptors and test their impact on the performance of polymer solar cells based on the polymer PffBT4T-2OD.
Although the final figures of merit are lower compared to similar OPVs with standard PC71BM, the knowledge acquired on the influence of fulleropyrrolidine functionalization on the final device performances can open a new framework for the synthesis and use of such acceptors.
The cyclic voltammograms of the eight synthesized fulleropyrrolidine acceptors, as well as the voltammograms of the corresponding PC61BM and PC71BM references are shown in Figure 2a.
The HOMO/LUMO levels that we have determined for PC61BM and PC71BM are in excellent agreement with literature [56,57] which attests the reliability of our measurements for the fulleropyrrolidine acceptors.
Interestingly, the LUMO orbitals, associated with the capacity of these molecules to act as electron acceptors, reside on the fullerene for all structures.
All the J–V curves of devices with fulleropyrrolidine acceptors show some space charge limited current (SCLC) effects, and interestingly devices based on 70A display a characteristic S-shaped similar to S-shaped J–V curves that have been previously reported in fulleropyrrolidine-based OPVs [43].
Clearly, a low JSC is a problem and considering that the light absorption of the blend with this donor displays an average behavior, we conclude that the energetic disorder should have a relevant influence in the OPVs made with this fullerene.
As all the active layers were deposited following the same procedure, it can be assumed that the different fulleropyrrolidine acceptors originate morphologically different films with significant influence in the electrical charge transport.
However, the high VOC is typical of a ‘single layer’ OPV, i.e., just one material (donor or acceptor) is contributing to the electrical charge generation and transport.
[79] of OPV devices using PEDOT: PSS as hole transport layer (HTL) and an active layer with N-alkyl-fulleropyrrolidine acceptors.
These authors have identified an interfacial reaction between the basic N-alkyl-fulleropyrrolidine acceptors and the acidic PEDOT:PSS that affects the OPV performance.
Interestingly, fulleropyrrolidines have been investigated as electron acceptors in OPVs for more than a decade, and although several works have published device data on inverted devices without PEDOT:PSS, the reason for that choice of device architecture was never mentioned before the work by Karakawa et al.
We have demonstrated a simple approach for the chemical modification of N-methyl-fulleropyrrolidine acceptors that can be extended to thiophene and carbazole based moieties.
However, OPV devices based on these novel fullerene acceptors performed worse than PC71BM-based reference devices.
Despite these lower performances obtained, our results confirm the critical dependence of the figures of merit of devices on the chemical structures of the fullerene derivative acceptors.
In one of the best reported examples, a PCE of 6.2% was achieved by a carbazole substituted porphyrin di-chromophoric DSSC [13], which is only half the value reported using a donor–π bridge–acceptor structured porphyrin dye (SM315)-sensitized solar cell (13%) [1].
A less studied but also very important energy transfer process is the Dexter mechanism, which involves electron exchange between the donor and the acceptor [15].
A feature of the PET quenching mechanism is the formation of exciplex (D+•A−)* after photo-excitation of the donor [18,19].
Therefore, unlike those of the other porphyrins, the first reduction of PorR is assigned to the reduction of the organic chromophore R. The low-lying reduction potential of the organic chromophore R in PorR enables a possible intramolecular electron transfer from the photo-excited porphyrin to the chromophore with the electron acceptor character of the benzothiadiazole unit.
In this cell architecture the polymer acts as an electron donor and the fullerene derivative acts as an electron acceptor [6].
Since the diffusion length of the exciton in the polymers is very low, recombination is highly probable, unless the electron is quickly injected into the carbon (acceptor) phase.
Nevertheless, this situation is still under debate, since efficient electron–hole separation has been recently observed in P3HT mixed with metallic and semiconducting CNTs [21], suggesting that both kinds of nanotubes could ultimately act as hole acceptors.
Whatever the solution to this puzzle is, including MWCNTs in a blend of P3HT and PCBM matches the key objective of achieving large interfacial areas within a bulk donor–acceptor heterojunction mixture, as proposed by Berson et al.
Besides, by taking into consideration an equivalent-circuit diagram for a bulk heterojunction solar cell (Figure 6), we highlight that the CNTs could be also responsible of a quenched recombination both at the dissociation sites (e.g., donor/acceptor interfaces) and near the anode (as a result of an increase of the shunt resistor Rsh), with a further positive effect on the Voc.
The use of surfactant-stripped NPs based on poly(3-hexylthiophene) / non-fullerene acceptor leads to a device efficiency and stability comparable to the one from devices processed by halogenated solvents.
However, due to the residual stabilizers and improper distribution of the donor and acceptor domains15,18–25, the performance of aqueous-processed NP solar cells was strongly limited to less than 4%, even for highly efficient donor:acceptor system26.
Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have recently boosted the efficiency of OPV devices to over 15%, due to their inherently better morphology in parallel to their widely tunable energy levels29.
Owing to the excellent solubility in multiple solvent systems, we propose to investigate NFAs as a most promising alternative to fullerene acceptors for NP solar cells.
NP solar cells based on P3HT and a rhodanine terminated small molecule acceptor o-IDTBR obtain a champion efficiency of 5.2%, while a record high PCE of 7.5% is achieved for the PBQ-QF:ITIC NPs, which is much higher than the values reported previously (Fig.
In our previous work, solar cells based on a NFA, namely IDTBR, could deliver state-of-the-art efficiencies and long-term stability in various donor systems31,32.
The synthesis route for NPs in the presence of F127 is described as follows: the organic composites, donor polymer and NFA, were first dissolved in THF.
2a) are excellent candidates to replace fullerene-based acceptors for this technique.Fig.
2Polymer:non-fullerene acceptor cs-NPs generated from surfactant-stripping technique.
Polymer:non-fullerene acceptor cs-NPs generated from surfactant-stripping technique.
In a recent industrial Figure of Merit (i-FoM) analysis, we have reported that P3HT would be the most promising donor for commercialization of NFA-based solar cells, owing to its promising high stability and extremely low synthetic complexity47.
A recombination order R higher than two is attributed to the trapping and release effects in energetic traps and morphological traps as in the case of an inhomogeneous donor-acceptor distribution55.
22) We believe that further exploring the parameter space of the surfactant-stripping process may allow us to better understand controlling the donor/acceptor microstructure on the level of single nanoparticles.
a Chemical structure of donors and acceptors for generality test of surfactant-stripping technique.
a Chemical structure of donors and acceptors for generality test of surfactant-stripping technique.
Mini-emulsion synthesis of polymer/non-fullerene acceptor NPs: Thirty milligram donor/acceptor mixture was dissolved in 1 mL chloroform and added to 6 mL 10 mg/mL SDS or DTAB aqueous solution and stirred for 2 h. The formed micro-emulsion dispersion was ultrasonicated using a Hielscher UPS200S ultrasonic finger in a water bath.
Nanoprecipitation synthesis of polymer/non-fullerene acceptor NPs: For the particle with surfactant F127 or Brij, 5 mg donor/acceptor mixture was dissolved in 1 mL tetrahydrofuran and injected into 2 mL 20 mg mL−1 F127 or Brij aqueous solution in a sonic bath.
For the particle with PSMA, 100 μg donor/acceptor mixture and 20 μg PSMA was dissolved in 1 mL THF and injected into 2 mL water in a sonic bath.
For the particle with PMAA, 100 μg donor/acceptor mixture was dissolved 50 μL THF and injected into 2 mL (5 mg mL−1) PMAA aqueous solution in a sonic bath.
It can be viewed as analogous to the in-gap state responsible for the acceptor properties.
However, the solar-active materials used, such as metal-based dyes in DSSCs and fullerene-based acceptors in OPVs, are expensive and cheaper alternatives for these are desired.
However, metal-free dyes and non-fullerene acceptors are currently unable to match the performance of their more-established counterparts [8,9,10].
For OPVs, aggregation of the acceptor molecules results in large acceptor domains, leading to reduced photocurrent as excitons generated too far away from the donor-acceptor interface recombine without being charge-separated at the interface.
Furthermore, although their emission characteristics are not required in DSSC dyes and non-fullerene acceptors for OPVs, the incorporation of rotor structures in these molecules can help to suppress π-stacking and aid in aggregation control.
In the presence of the strong electron-withdrawing malonitrile group, the TPE moieties act as an electron donor.
The donor-acceptor interactions result in the fluorophores having emission maxima (λem) of around 550 nm.
To overcome this issue, Wong and co-workers utilized an AIE molecule, 2-(4-(diphenylamino)phenyl)-3,3-diphenylacrylonitrile (13) as the donor material, in combination with a low concentration of an acceptor dye with high emission quantum yield, 4-(dicyanomethylene)-2-tert-butyl-6-(1,1,7,7-tetramethyljulolidyl-9-enyl)-4H-pyran (DCJTB) [23].
In an OPV cell, the active material is a blend of two materials—an electron donor and an electron acceptor.
Many donor and acceptor materials have been developed in recent years, and these materials have played a major role in pushing the PCEs of these cells past the 10% mark [37,38,39].
Although there was an early report on donor molecules containing the AIE-active hexaphenylsilole moiety, the major impact of rotor-containing molecules has been on non-fullerene acceptors, where the rotors are used to control aggregation and improve electron transport.
By attaching electron donating carbazolyl groups to an AIE-active hexaphenylsilole core, photoactive donor-acceptor adducts 31 and 32 were achieved (Figure 10) [41].
For a long period, fullerene derivatives such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) were ubiquitous as the acceptor material in high performance OPVs.
In recent years, acceptor materials based on non-fullerene small molecules have been developed [10].
A common limitation of these small molecule acceptors is their tendency to aggregate into large domains in BHJ blend films.
To counter the aggregation, small molecules with twisted structures or with bulky bridging groups have been designed, resulting in acceptors which are able to form amorphous films with acceptably small domain sizes; however the electron mobilities of these materials are insufficient to deliver high OPV performance.
The unique properties of rotor structures may be useful in designing non-fullerene acceptor molecules as their highly-twisted structures result in weak inter-molecular interactions and good solubility in organic solvents.
BHJ OPV devices were fabricated from blend films of 33 with the donor polymer PBDTT-F-TT (Figure 11), with the inverted structure of ITO/ZnO/PBDTT-F-TT:33/V2O5 (20nm)/Al (100 nm).
The external quantum efficiency of the cells exhibited a peak at 540 nm, which corresponded with the absorbance peak for 33, indicating that unlike PCBM-based cells, the acceptor contributed significantly to the light absorption of the blend film.
While intramolecular twisting is an effective tool in the design of small molecule acceptors, the degree of intramolecular twisting may need to be optimized.
Bhosale and co-workers reported a TPE-core acceptor using diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) units in place of PDI units (35) [44].
It is possible that combining 35 with higher-performance donor polymers would lead to higher PCEs than what had been obtained with P3HT.
In third-generation solar cells, rotor structures have also been incorporated into metal-free dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells and non-fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaics.
TCNQ is a known electron acceptor capable for forming charge-transfer complexes for improved optoelectronic properties,168 and fluorinated TCNQ derivatives have successfully doped spiro-OMeTAD-based HTLs, and improved HTL hydrophobicity via hydrophobic fluorine atom incorporation and metal cation elimination.
It was found that the mass ratio of donor (P3HT)/acceptor (PCBM) = 1:1 in the active layer, with chlorobenzene as a solvent, an ITO anode, PEDOT:PSS as hole transport layer, ZnO nanoparticles as electron transport layer, and sputtered Ag cathode were the most appropriate circumstances for fabrication of cheap and simple flexible SCs.
In the design of materials for OECTs, Parr and coworkers recently explored these strategies to obtain donor–acceptor polymers based on tetrafluorophenilenes and triethylene glycol-functionalized aromatic rings, obtaining a hysteresis-free OECT with remarkable performance (µC* = 10.0 F·cm−1·V−1·s−1) [84].
Recently, Xu and coworkers studied all-polymer donor–acceptor heterojunctions [85].
Instead of just integrating donor and acceptor moieties into the polymer chain, they combined polymers with low ionization energy with high-electron-affinity polymers.
However, due to the highly localized charge carriers on the chain due to the donor–acceptor character, the OECT performances obtained were limited in comparison with more classical p-type OECTs in accumulation mode.
Even though many n-type small molecules, mainly acceptors, are well established in OPVs [93], these materials are just emerging in the OECT field.
The AL of solar cells is elaborated using ZnONWs interpenetrated with a bulk heterojunction composed of donor (π-conjugate low band gap polymer: PBDD4T-2F)/acceptor (fullerene derivate: PC71BM) materials.
The OPV cells or organic parts of hybrid cells are always made with the combination of two distinct components, namely the electron-accepting (acceptor A) and the hole-accepting (donor D) materials.
There have already been reports on large varieties of these materials, such as π-conjugated wide1,2 and low-band3−5 gap polymers, fullerene C60 or C70 derivatives,6 and nonfullerene acceptors7 such as ITIC.3
The organic part is a D/A heterojunction composed of low band gap polymer PBDD4T-2F and PC71BM as a donor and an acceptor, respectively.48 The design consisting of an optimal interpenetration between the D/A heterojunction and the ZnONW network incorporated in the AL theoretically corresponds to an ideal architecture.49 Even the dimensions of the heterogeneities were chosen to match the critical distances for exciton diffusion and free charge carrier transport.50,51
High-molecular-weight polymers tend to incorporate the PC71BM and prevent the formation of the continuous acceptor domains.76,77 The latter should, therefore, be placed in a larger percentage for a better controlled phase separation and for triggering the PV effect.75 The optimal D/A ratio also depends on the processing steps of the AL that control the size distribution of the D/A phases.75,77
For application in solar cells, PBDD4T-2F and PC71BM were chosen as donor (D) and acceptor (A) materials.
The AL (AL) is prepared using the commercial donor PBDD4T-2F polymer purchased from Ossila (138 kg/mol, PDI = 2.6) and acceptor PC71BM from Solarmer (purity 99%).
Two donor-π-bridge-acceptor type copolymers were designed and synthesized by combining this π-bridge structure, a fluorinated benzothiadiazole acceptor unit, and a thiophene or thienothiophene donor unit, (PT-ODTTBT or PTT-ODTTBT respectively) through Stille polymerization.
Compared to PT-ODTTBT containing a thiophene donor unit, PTT-ODTTBT containing a thienothiophene donor unit exhibited higher crystallinity, preferential face-on orientation, and a bicontinuous interpenetrating network in the film, which are responsible for the improved OPV performance in terms of high Jsc, FF, and PCE.
Recently, their photovoltaic performance has rapidly advanced through the development of state-of-the-art electron donor/acceptor or interfacial materials, as well as optimization of the OPV device fabrication process via adjusting additives, solvents, and thermal treatment.
The active layer of an OPV is composed of an interpenetrating network formed by blending electron-donor and electron-acceptor materials [16,17].
In particular, π-conjugated polymers with a donor(D)–π–bridge–acceptor(A) architecture are commonly used as an electron donor.
Among the D–π–A type polymer donors, benzothiadiazole based polymer donors have been reported with excellent photovoltaic properties.
reported a promising polymer donor (PffBT4T-2OD) consisting of benzothiadiazole as an electron accepting building block.
In particular, polymer donors containing TT exhibited a well-organized crystal domain and high charge carrier mobility and can be used in the development of efficient OPVs.
reported that the polymer donor P(BDT-TT-BT), which contained TT as the π-bridge instead of thiophene (T), has a broad absorption spectrum and increased hole mobility because of the extended π-conjugation and enhanced crystallinity [24].
Figure 1b is a schematic energy diagram of the synthesized donor polymers and PC71BM acceptor.
The OPV devices were systematically optimized by controlling the donor/acceptor blending ratio, additive solvent, and thickness of the photoactive layer (Figures S6 and S7, and Tables S1 and S2).
In comparison, phase separation between the donor and acceptor was observed in the PT-ODTTBT:PC71BM film, suggesting that the poor miscibility of this blend film would affect the charge transport and separation, leading to relatively lower Jsc and FF than those of PTT-ODTTBT:PC71BM.
Two corresponding conjugated copolymers (PT-ODTTBT and PTT-ODTTBT) composed of benzothiadiazole and thiophene or thieno[3,2-b]thiophene were synthesized as electron donor materials for organic photovoltaics.
In particular, for photovoltaic applications and other optoelectronics uses, boron bonded to dipolar π-conjugated ligands is able to act as an electron donor, aid in charge transport, or act as hole blocking layer [11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18].
To date, polythiophene derivatives, including the regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), are among the most commonly employed electron donors in combination with the highly soluble fullerene molecules (PCBM) as electron acceptors for OPVs under the BHJ architecture; their use extends to thin film transistors, light emitting diodes, electrochromic windows and sensors [23].
Our results suggest that M1 is an absorber of light that not only extends the absorption spectra of the active layer but that could also open new paths for more efficient transport of excitons from the electron-donor polymer to the strong electron acceptor PC61BM.
D and A correspond to donor and acceptor, respectively.
When light with energy equal to, or greater than, the optical gap of the donor material is incident on the active layer of an OPV, part of it is absorbed exciting an electron from the HOMO level to above the LUMO level.
While we do not expect to have such large enhancements, or perhaps not to have any, for state-of-the-art devices which comprise the use of donor materials of optimized electronic characteristics, we wanted to understand the enhancement mechanism and to explore the viability of organometallic molecules in OPV devices.
In short, for all the samples under study the presence of M1 not only enhanced the absorption range of the BHJ but also created new paths for charge transport from the electron donor polymer to the interface with PC61BM due to the positioning of the LUMO levels of M1 with respect to the polaronic band.
A donor-acceptor (D-A) type polymer, poly {[N,N′-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene-1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5′-(2,2′-bithiophene)}, (P2, Figure 3) also known as N2200, is considered to be the most extensively investigated n-type polymer for OTFTs [49,50,51] and OPVs [52,53,54,55,56,57].
Diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) or pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole-1,4(2H,5H)-dione is a strong acceptor building block, which has been used extensively for the construction of a large number of ultrahigh mobility donor-acceptor (D-A) type polymer semiconductors for OTFTs [60].
When evaluated as a donor with PC61BM as the acceptor in solar cells, P1DHAP3 outperformed P1Stille2 (PCE: 3.28% vs. 2.86%, Table 2).
As a donor, P8DHAP demonstrated a high PCE of 4.08%, while P8Suzuki exhibited a very low PCE of 0.480%.
As a donor, P9DHAP showed slightly lower PCE in OPVs than P9Suzuki1 when PC61BM was used as the acceptor (4.37 vs. 5.50%, Table 2).
Solar cells made using P10Stille gave much better PCE of up to 7.10% when used as the donor material in OPVs.
Poly[4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b;3,4-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl] (PCPDTBT, P11) is a high performance polymer semiconductor, used commonly as a donor in OPVs [76,77,78], and a p-type semiconductor in OTFTs [79].
Despite such high β-defect concentration, P11DHAP exhibited higher PCE in solar cells using PC71BM as the acceptor under the same processing and testing conditions compared to P11Suzuki (PCE: 3.98% vs. 3.74%.
reported on the DHAP synthesis of a random copolymer (P13), which used benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole or benzo[d][1,2,3]triazole as the accepting units and benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene as the donor component [23].
When the two polymers were tested in solar cells with PC71BM as the acceptor, P13DHAP gave a lower PCE of 2.80% compared to a value of 4.80% for P13Stille.
When evaluated in solar cell devices with PC71BM as the acceptor, P14DHAP gave an almost same PCE compared with P14Stille (PCE: 8.36% vs. 8.40%, Table 2 and Figure 6a).
PBDTTPD (P17) is another high performance donor polymer for OPVs [86].
OPV devices using these two polymers as the donors and PC71BM as the acceptor were fabricated and compared.
A high PCE of up to 6.80% was achieved when P18DHAP was used as a donor in OPVs, which is higher than that (PCE = 5.20%) of P18Stille prepared by the Stille coupling, which had a lower Mn of 15 kDa [88].
The champion polymer from their study, P19DHAP, was based on a seleno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6-dione acceptor and a dithienosilole donor and was obtained with an Mn of 29 kDa and an Mw/Mn of 1.6.
Moreover, PTVT-T presents a wide absorption band and strong aggregation effect in solution, which are the key characteristics needed to realize high performance in non-fullerene-acceptor (NFA)-based OSCs.
We then prepared OSCs by blending PTVT-T with three representative fullerene- and NF-based acceptors, PC71BM, IT-4F and BTP-eC9.
It was found that PTVT-T can work well with all the acceptors, showing great potential to match new emerging NFAs.
In very recent years, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs), particularly in the OSCs based on non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), were remarkably boosted to over 18% owing to the rapid development of both photovoltaic/interfacial materials and device fabrication techniques [3–6].
Among the OSCs presenting state-of-the-art PCEs, the choices of polymer donors are limited to several systems, such as PBDB-TF (also known as PM6) and its derivatives [7,8], D18 [3], PTQ10 [9], PTzBI-dF [10] and PBTATBT-4f [11] (Fig.
S1), which benefit from both desirable opto-electrical properties and, more importantly, fine optimization of the blend morphology when these donor polymers work together with the most popular NFAs, i.e.
However, these donor materials were designed with complex molecular structures, by constructing the conjugated backbones with fused heterocyclic systems or introducing halogen atoms, to achieve suitable light absorption spectra and matched energy levels with NFAs, resulting in critical cost issues and scale-up difficulties, which have been deemed as a great obstacle for the future commercialization of OSCs.
In order to find polymer donors with low synthetic cost, two main factors should be taken into consideration.
In past years, noticeable efforts have been devoted to the simple conjugated polymer donors with high photovoltaic performance.
designed a polymer based on thiophene and fluorine-substituted quinoxaline, namely PTQ10, and realized a PCE of 12.70% [9], which was further improved to 16.21% by utilizing Y6 as the acceptor [18].
So far, although a few advances have been made, designing simple polymer donors with high photovoltaic performance and good adaptability to different acceptors is still a great challenge.
In the early stage of OSCs research, polythiophenes (PTs) [19–22], especially poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), played a critical role as electron donor in OSCs when fullerenes were predominantly adopted as acceptor in a device.
S2, PTVs showed inferior photovoltaic properties in OSCs due to unknown reasons, no matter when they were blended with fullerene or non-fullerene acceptors [25,29].
In solid thin film, PTVT-T demonstrates an absorption spectrum similar to PBDB-TF, a broadly used polymer donor for highly efficient OSCs, and the backbone of PTVT-T tends to form a face-on packing mode.
PTVT-T can work well with a few representative fullerene- and non-fullerene-based acceptors, such as PC71BM, IT-4F and BTP-eC9 (abbreviated to eC9 in this work).
In order to investigate the ‘low-cost’ characteristic of PTVT-T, we compared the chemical structures, synthesis steps, MOC (material-only cost) of PTVT-T and some typical high-performance polymer donors, including PBDB-TF, D18, PTzBI-dF, PTQ-10 and PBTATBT-4f [34].
The photovoltaic performance, synthesis steps, MOC and price of some typical highly efficient polymer donors with PCE over 16% and PTVT-T in this work.
According to recent works [11,18], high-performance polymer donors for NFA-based OSCs usually show a strong aggregation effect in solution, and the aggregation in the processing solution can be maintained into the coated blend film, in which aggregation-induced polymer channels, and nanoscale phase separation morphology with interpenetrating networks, can be formed in the photoactive layer.
Such a strong aggregation effect is very similar to the other high-performance polymer donors [8,36] and has not been observed in most of the reported PTVs.
S4), respectively, which are the most popular fullerene- and non-fullerene-based acceptors.
The detailed device optimization process, including variation of host solvents, donor and acceptor (D/A) weight ratios, additives and thermal annealing methods, can be found in Figs S5–S9 and Tables S2–S6, and the current density voltage (J-V) curves as well as the corresponding photovoltaic parameters are provided in Fig.
Additionally, time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) was measured to investigate the charge transfer between the donor and acceptors.
The significantly quenched fluorescence suggests efficient charge transfer between PTVT-T and each of the acceptors.
Overall, these results imply that PTVT-T can form appropriate nano-scale networks with both fullerene- and non-fullerene-based acceptors, moreover, PTVT-T can guide in ‘face-on’ orientation and tight π-π stacking, which are favorable for charge transport.
The devices based on PTVT-T and three representative fullerene and non-fullerene acceptors, including PC71BM, IT-4F and eC9, exhibit the PCEs of 7.25%, 11.28% and 16.20%, respectively, which are not only the best results for PTV-based polymers but also among the top values for OSCs based on other complex polymers.
BHJ PSCs, with the full name of bulk heterojunction polymer solar cells, in recent decades have received increasing interest for their use in renewable energy sources, due to their unique advantages including ease of fabrication, capability for large areas, flexibility, low-cost room-temperature solution process, and their light weight and continuously improving power conversion efficiencies (PCEs).1 Typically, a photoactive layer, composed of a fullerene derivative as the acceptor and a conjugated polymer as the donor, is sandwiched between a cathode and anode with their corresponding interlayers.
The active layer was composed of a bulk heterojunction of conjugated polymer based on indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene and 5,5′-di(thiophen-2-yl)-2,2′-bithiazole PIDTT-DTBTz as a donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as an acceptor.
and others recommended the use of ZnO buffer layer for thin film solar cell application due to its good morphological and electrical properties.21–23 Since the conduction band of ZnO (−4.4 eV) is below the lowest unoccupied molecular (LUMO) energy level of the commonly used acceptor, PC71BM (−4.0 eV), electron transfer is expected to proceed without significant energy loss.
In addition, its valence band (−7.8 eV) is far below the commonly used donor polymers blocking hole transfer into ITO when used in an inverted geometry.
Plasmonic enhancement using NPs that have resonance that matches with the absorption of these wide band gap polymers can provide a facile route for the improvement of their absorption.30,31 The bithiazole (BTz) unit has been widely used to develop push–pull type wide band gap polymers due to its weak electron-withdrawing ability, simple and planar structure, and electron-deficient nature.32,33 Our group reported the synthesis and characterization of the wide band gap push–pull polymer PIDTT-DTBTz based on the ladder-type indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT) as a donor unit and 5,5′-di(thiophen-2-yl)-2,2′-bithiazole as an acceptor unit.
Inverted OSCs devices were fabricated from PIDTT-DTBTz donor and PC71BM acceptor using pristine ZnO and ZnO:cAu NPs (%) as ETL with a device geometry of ITO/ZnO:cAu (%)/active layer/MoO3/Al (Fig.
Veff for inverted OPV cells fabricated on pure ZnO ETL and on ZnO embedded with different Concentrations of cAu NPs ETL (b) PL spectra of pristine donor polymer and active layer spin coated on pure ZnO and ZnO embedded with different concentrations of cAu NPs.
4(b), making the charge transfer at the donor/acceptor interface a crucial parameter for efficient current generation.
The QEs of the plasmonic devices were found to be higher compared to the reference cell, with the highest value found to be 90.49% for the ZnO in which 10% cAu NPs were embedded, confirming an efficient charge transfer at the donor/acceptor interface (Table 2).
This efficient charge transfer can be due to an improved donor/acceptor interface and/or lowered exciton binding energy by the LSPR of the NPs.
However, since the NPs were not embedded in the active layer, an improved donor/acceptor interface can be neglected.
The discovery of novel high-performing materials such as non-fullerene acceptors and low band gap donor polymers underlines the steady increase of record efficiencies in organic solar cells witnessed during the past years.
Organic photovoltaic (OPV) materials discovery of novel small molecular acceptors and low band gap donor polymers has recently propelled power conversion efficiencies to figures approaching 20%.
1.11 The initial stage comprises the first decade of the 21st century in which most of the fundamental physical concepts were established, basic geometries explored and the role of the active layer morphology revealed.7 Then, the introduction of low band gap donor polymers to substitute more classical materials such as polythiophenes, took PCEs up to the 10% regime.12 More recently, the vertiginous increase in efficiency over the last five years is the result of the irruption of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) in the OPV scene.13,14 Every year, an increased number of NFAs are being synthesized targeting improved light absorption capabilities (leading to large short-circuit current densities, Jsc) as well as fine-tuned energy levels (resulting in optimized open-circuit voltages, Voc).
fullerenes) relates to their chemical flexibility, which enables proper adjustment of energy levels, band gaps, solubility and crystallinity, resulting in an endless catalogue of potentially high-performing NFA candidates.9,13,14 On the other hand, push–pull donor copolymers are synthetically flexible as well, thus the number of donor:acceptor pairs waking OPV interest up is seemingly infinite.
(a) The workhorse ITIC acceptor molecule is composed of a seven-ring conjugated fused core as the central unit (indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene, IT, colored in red).
(c) When building an organic solar cell as per the architecture of binary bulk heterojunctions, up to 81 different donor:acceptor combinations are possible.
For any given donor:acceptor pair, researchers have encountered a vast configurational landscape shaping the device performance.
Therein, the location of the optimum is determined by a combination of (1) intrinsic material properties such as energy level alignment, miscibility, optical extinction or exciton diffusion length;15 (2) extrinsic conditions related to the film processing such as casting temperature or ink formulation; and (3) device features such as the active layer thickness or the donor:acceptor blend ratio forming the OPV blend.
2c), result in a vast combinatorial scenario where classical screening methodologies (in which donor:acceptor pairs are tested individually until nailing the optimum performance) are no longer time and cost effective.
As a result, with the same amount of time and resources, high-throughput methods may explore a much greater number of systems, enabling truly combinatorial screening of donor:acceptor pairs,26 or making systematic studies of e.g.
For instance, one looks first at the optimum donor:acceptor ratio in an OPV blend fixing all other parameters, and from this selects the best performing composition by looking at the PCE distribution; afterwards, one fixes the donor:acceptor ratio in the previously found optimum and looks solely at the optimum annealing temperature.
PCE optimization of a particular donor:acceptor blend), whereas screening aims at probing uncharted parametric combinations in a more systematic manner to look for further maxima (e.g.
screening of several acceptor materials for a given donor).
The CEP was initially exploited to screen up to 1.3 million donor materials, as obtained from the combinatorial bonding of 26 different molecular fragments extracted from the literature.
In OPV, this problem is typically encountered in the optimization of active layer features such as thickness and composition (donor:acceptor ratio), which primarily determine the device performance.
explored the synthetic complexity (SC) of active layer donor polymers47 and NFAs,48 while Moser et al.
In general, the device cost is proportional to the total number of synthetic steps required by each of the organic semiconductors employed, which is affected as well by their synthetic yield.50 In this regard, the donor polymer known as PTQ10 has emerged as a very cost-effective counterpart for upscaling due to its great balance between synthetic cost and performance (PCE/SF = 0.53) when blended with NFAs from the Y-series.49 On the other hand, state-of-the-art low bandgap polymers including PBDB-T and their halogenated derivatives do not exceed the PCE/SF threshold of 0.4.
Thickness gradients can be generated by (a) meniscus-guided coating techniques such as flow coating;60 or (b) off-center spin coating.64 Compositional gradients, where distinct donor and acceptor inks are blended in a controlled fashion, can be realized by (c) a two-drop coalescence method based on blade coating;54 or (d) using a microfluidic-assisted blade coating platform that assures enhanced reproducibility.70 Annealing gradients serve to screen how the microstructure of the photoactive layer affects device performance and these are typically realized by (e) holding one side of the sample at a fixed temperature TH, thus generating a continuously decreasing temperature profile (up to TC) spanning over the long aspect ratio substrate.64 (f) Annealing gradients are usually combined orthogonally with gradients covering a distinct parameter such as thickness, thus realizing 2D combinatorial libraries.54 Figures reprinted from ref.
On the other hand, using movable shadow masks, evaporated devices with thickness gradients can also be obtained.65 Recently, evaporated OPVs with bilayer architecture have been optimized by using orthogonal wedges of donor and acceptor layers.66 In addition to lab-scale research, solution-processed thickness gradients have also been demonstrated to be an efficient way to screen the active layer thickness dependence in roll-to-roll (R2R) setups.
The generation of combinatorial compositional libraries in solid-state is certainly more experimentally challenging yet it renders attractive in those systems in which the mixing ratio strongly influences the device performance, such as the case of OPV and the donor:acceptor ratio.
Since composition affects the amount of light harvested and the efficiency of exciton splitting and charge collection, every novel donor:acceptor pair must be subjected to its corresponding optimization.
In 2010, F. C. Krebs's group implemented a differentially pumped slot-die coater in a R2R setup to realize a one-dimensional compositional library as an elegant way to accelerate the donor:acceptor ratio optimization process in OPV devices, which they demonstrated for the P3HT:PCBM system.57 Two years later, Lee et al.
reported the fabrication of lateral compositional gradients using spray-assisted deposition methods although showing very limited intermixing of the donor and acceptor materials.67 Since then, and given the unsparingly growing catalogue of light-harvesting organic semiconductors, different high-throughput experimental approaches have been developed to be compatible as well with lab-scale research laboratories.
5d).70 In this methodology, 3D-printed microfluidic devices were used to control the in situ mixing of the pristine donor and acceptor inks, which are poured directly as three independent streams (including a central branch with a 1 : 1 (v : v) mixture) to the blade ink reservoir during the coating process.
for binary bulk heterojunction blends comprising a donor polymer and a fullerene acceptor (Fig.
Very recently, our group applied the same methodology to heterogeneous blends of donor polymers and NFAs.26 The possibility to pattern 2D gradients over large areas is unique to blade coating, thus advancing the previous 1D exploration based on differentially-pumped slot-die coating.57
Their setup is applied outdoors in photovoltaic installations under low-light conditions and even at daytime.84 On the other hand, PL mapping serves to evaluate the degree of phase separation between the donor and acceptor species by looking at the PL intensity quenching and shifting.
The same group led by C. J. Brabec and J. Hauch recently deployed an automated solar cell fabrication and characterization platform labeled as AMANDA Line One (Autonomous Materials and Device Application Platform, www.amanda-platform.com).98 In a first demonstration, they evaluated the efficiency and photostability of the workhorse donor:acceptor OPV blend PM6:Y6.99 The 10-dimensional multivariate space therein screened required 24 hours to be completed, and close to 72 hours including a 50 h photostability test performed with the help of Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) algorithms to identify the key process parameters.
The application of DoE strategies such as factorial design in OPV was first introduced by J. M. Buriak's group, who replaced Edisonian experimentation by a statistically-based rationale in the selection of devices to be fabricated while optimizing the use of human workforce time and resources.112 In a first optimization round of their PCDTBT:PC71BM solar cells, a four-variable parametric space consisting of donor weight ratio, solution concentration, spin speed and concentration of processing additive is screened according to a Latin square factorial sampling approach followed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA).
For data interpretation, they tested up to five different ML techniques and found that random forest (RF) ensembles and gradient boosting regression trees (GBRT) performed significantly better when training predictive PCE models.127 Their results indicate that in small-molecule OPV devices containing either [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) or [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as acceptors, the degeneracy of the frontier molecular orbitals,127 the LUMO and LUMO+1 levels of the donor, their alignment with those of the acceptor and the change in the dipole moment from the ground state to the first excited state of the donor molecule might have more importance than thought so far in determining the PCE.128
In the case of ternary blends, including as well fullerene derivatives as acceptor species, Min-Hsuan Lee constructed a photovoltaic performance dataset of 124 material combinations together with their corresponding frontier energy levels retrieved experimentally in the same publications.129 In this work, the predictive accuracy in terms of PCE of up to 5 different regression ML models and 6 classifiers was compared until identifying that RF model ensembles outperformed amongst the tested approaches.
Interestingly, the LUMO level of the donor materials was found to be the most important parameter in determining the photovoltaic performance, in good agreement with previous data mining studies.
That same year, a similar study was reported exploiting a database consisting of 135 donor:NFA pairs showing that, in this particular type of blends, the band gap of the NFA and the HOMO level of the donor are the most important parameters in drawing PCE predictions.130 In this case, a RF regressor was demonstrated to retrieve a coefficient of determination (R2) of 0.80 in the testing set.
collected the photovoltaic performance (Voc, Jsc, FF and PCE) of 565 donor:acceptor pairs from the literature and tested the predictive accuracy for the PCE of a variety of ML algorithms.131 The study shows once again that RF models and GBRT outperform the investigation of the performance in polymer:NFA devices.
introduced an advanced segmentation of the input molecules into fragments, which were then combinatorially screened to propose new high-performing candidates and donor:acceptor pairs (Fig.
Reassuringly, the same donor:acceptor pair was shown to reach a PCE as high as 16.5% in a different laboratory.132 These results illustrate that, on the one hand, data mining has an inherent drawback related with the consistency of the retrieved datasets, as these correspond to different material suppliers and manufacturers that follow a rich catalogue of protocols in distinct worldwide laboratories; and, on the other hand, that ML algorithms are powerful tools to realize molecular screening and propose potentially high-performing photovoltaic candidates.
In particular, this property is called to enable the rapid identification of suitable photoactive candidates and donor:acceptor pair combinations motivating their ulterior synthesis and characterization.
Very recently, our group implemented a consistent pairing between high-throughput experimentation based on gradients and AI algorithms to extract predictive models for the photocurrent-composition dependence in organic solar cells.26 The approach starts by collecting large datasets consisting of hundreds of thousands of data points drawn from the systematic high-throughput screening of 15 distinct donor:acceptor pairs performed via 2D thickness-composition libraries.
 Ring fusion and conjugated bridge length dependent exciton dynamics and electronic coupling in a series of perylenediimide dimers with acceptor–donor–acceptor arrangement are investigated by ultrafast optical spectroscopy and TDDFT calculations.Perylenediimide (PDI) derivatives have been widely studied as electron acceptor alternatives to fullerenes in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) because of their tunable absorption in the visible range, inexpensive synthesis, and photochemical stability.
A common motif for improving device efficiency involves joining multiple PDIs together through electron-rich linkers to form a twisted acceptor–donor–acceptor molecule.
Spectroscopic characterization of the dimers suggest that ring fusion causes greater coupling between the donor and acceptor components and greatly enhances the lifetime of a thienoacene to PDI charge transfer state.
The results provide a successful rationalization of the behavior of solar cells involving these acceptor molecules.
The development of organic photovoltaic (OPV) electron acceptors has progressed rapidly in the last several years, with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) exceeding 18% in conjugated polymer and small molecule OPV devices.1–4 Most OPV devices utilize a photoactive layer of intermixed electron donating and accepting materials,5 known as a bulk heterojunction (BHJ), to generate large areas of the donor–acceptor interface where charge separation occurs.
Much of the recent OPV improvement has come from the electron acceptor materials, namely non-fullerene acceptors.6 Historically, fullerene derivatives have been the most commonly used and extensively studied electron accepting materials,7–9 however high cost, photochemical instability, and challenges with processability have led the field to pivot towards non-fullerene alternatives.10,11 Among these alternatives, perylenediimide (PDI) derivatives (particularly those connecting multiple PDI blocks), are appealing candidates because they are comparatively inexpensive to produce, photochemically stable, and synthetically tunable for optimal HOMO/LUMO overlap with the electron donor.12,13
The highest performing PDI acceptors share several key molecular features.
First, multiple PDI molecules are often linked together to form twisted dimers, trimers, and tetramers.6,13–25 The twisted structure inhibits π–π interactions between neighboring PDIs which are otherwise prone to aggregate into undesirable micrometer-scale crystalline domains, reducing the donor–acceptor interfacial area.26–28 It also accommodates PDI interface with electron donors in different orientations, somewhat mimicking the isotropic interactions credited as key to efficient donor–acceptor charge transfer in fullerene based active layers.28,29 Second, taking cues from the electron push–pull structures in many recent conjugated polymers which have proven to be effective electron donors in OPV active layers and OLEDs,30,31 the PDI units are joined together with an electron donating linker such as a phenol, thiophene, or benzodithiophene group.6,15–18,23,32–34 PDI and the electron donating bridging blocks combine to form an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) complex, which promotes intramolecular charge transfer (Fig.
Using this series, we can identify trends associated with ring fusion, linker length, and twist angle to further fundamental understanding regarding the rational design of this family of electron acceptors.
A similar trend was observed in our previous publication on push–pull conjugated polymers, in which lengthening the donor block fully flipped the relative positions of the donor and acceptor LUMOs, and in fact localized the exciton on the donor block.53
The implications of this for donor–acceptor charge separation efficiency and dynamics within bulk heterojunction films could be of interest for future study.
In summary, the results have determined that many of the structural modifications to PDI acceptors that have previously been identified as favorable for device-driven metrics such as open circuit voltage and film morphology, also have significant implications for intrinsic photoinduced molecular behavior.
Knowledge of these photophysical effects could be leveraged to further optimize these organic electron acceptors.
So far, the formation and decay processes of CT excitons have been investigated most frequently at heteromolecular interfaces between donor and acceptor molecules8−13 as well as in organic polymer films where these CT excitons are often referred to as interchain excitons.14,15
AbstractA new class of subnaphthalocyanines bearing various peripheral and axial substituents have been synthesized for use as electron acceptors in solution‐processed bulk‐heterojunction polymer solar cells.
The resulting solar cells exhibit modest photovoltaic performance with contributions from both the polymer donor and subnaphthalocyanine acceptor to the photocurrent.
Bulk‐heterojunction (BHJ) polymer solar cells (PSCs) hold great promise as the next‐generation photovoltaic technology due to their advantages, such as low‐cost, flexibility, and compatibility with roll‐to‐roll processing and inkjet printing.1 Recently, tremendous progress has been achieved in this field with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) in excess of 12 %.2 In a BHJ‐PSC, the core component is the active layer, in which the blend of an electron–donor and an electron–acceptor forms a phase separated morphology with a bicontinuous interpenetrating network.
Although numerous electron donors including both conjugated polymers and small molecules have been extensively invented by chemists,3 the electron acceptors were dominated by fullerene derivatives in the past two decades.4 However, fullerene‐based acceptors possess a few limitations, such as difficulty in synthesis and purification, low absorption coefficients, limited variability in the energy levels, and poor morphological stability in BHJ films.5 Encouragingly, efficient non‐fullerene acceptors have been developed in recent years that can overcome the shortcomings associated with fullerene‐based acceptors.5 The state‐of‐the‐art PSCs built on non‐fullerene acceptors produced remarkable PCEs over 13 % in both single‐ and multi‐junction devices, outperforming fullerene‐based acceptors.2b,2c
Despite many different n‐type materials that were developed and assessed as acceptors in PSCs, two families of small molecular non‐fullerene acceptors presently reach PCEs over 10 % when blended with conjugated polymers.
These are derivatives of aromatic diimide6 and acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type molecules with large central fused rings.7 Nevertheless, the development of new non‐fullerene acceptors beyond aromatic diimides and A–D–A molecules are also highly desired and may offer new properties.8 Recently, we and other groups demonstrated that subphthalocyanines (SubPcs) are promising non‐fullerene acceptors for PSCs.9 SubPcs are aromatic chromophoric molecules with a boron at their inner cavity, a cone‐shaped structure, and electron‐transporting characteristics.10 These characteristics render SubPcs good electron acceptor property and solution processability.
By using PTB7‐Th as the electron donor, solar cells with a PCE up to 4 % and an external quantum efficiency (EQE) approaching 60 % have been achieved by a SubPc derivative with chlorine atom as both peripheral and axial substituent (SubPc‐Cl6‐Cl).9a
Subnaphthalocyanines (SubNcs) are similar to SubPcs, but offer extended conjugation in the peripheral cone of the molecule, becoming an important family of chromophores that exhibit outstanding photophysical properties showing strong electronic absorption and high fluorescence quantum yields.11 Historically, SubNcs have been used as electron acceptors in vacuum‐evaporated solar cells, reaching an impressive PCE of 8.4 %.12 However, SubNcs have never been tested as either donors or acceptors in solution‐processed BHJ solar cells.
Herein, we report five SubNcs bearing different peripheral and axial substituents as electron acceptors in BHJ solar cells for the first time.
A maximum PCE of 1.09 % has been achieved for SubNc‐F12‐OPhtBu demonstrating the ability of SubNcs to act as electron acceptor in BHJ PSC.
This work paves the way to a new family of non‐fullerene acceptors for BHJ PSCs through rational molecular modification.
The motivation for the design of these molecules starts from SubPc‐Cl6‐Cl, which is our previously developed successful SubPc‐based acceptor.9a The related SubNc is SubNc‐Cl12‐Cl, which has the same peripheral and axial substituents.
More peripheral chlorine atoms were introduced onto SubNc‐Cl12‐Cl to downshift the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level and to obtain acceptor character.
The photovoltaic properties of the SubNcs acceptors were evaluated in solar cells in combination with PTB7‐Th as a low‐band‐gap donor polymer in an ITO/ZnO/PTB7‐Th:SubNc‐X/MoOx/Ag device structure under simulated air mass 1.5 global (AM1.5G) illumination (100 mW cm−2).
The V oc provided by SubNc‐F12‐OPhtBu is only slightly less than for PTB7‐Th:fullerene devices (about 0.8 V), but the V oc of the solar cells based on other SubNcs with PTB7‐Th is lower due to their deeper LUMO levels.13 As shown in Figure 3 b, both the polymer donor and the SubNc acceptor contribute to the photocurrent in each case.
Except for SubNc‐(SO2Pent)12‐Cl, absorption spectra of which has substantial overlap with the donor polymer PTB7‐Th, all other SubNcs exhibit a EQE maximum located at about 540 nm and EQE shoulder located at about 710 nm, which originate from the SubNcs and PTB7‐Th, respectively.
Another common limitation of these solar cells is their low FF (≤0.46), which is much lower than that of high‐performing solar cells based on fullerene acceptors and A–D–A acceptors.
A low FF may result from space‐charge limited photocurrent, when the mobilities for holes and electrons are largely unbalanced.14 We thus focused on understanding the reason for the low J sc and FF of the devices based on these SubNcs acceptors.
Hole mobilities (μ h) and electron mobilities (μ e; Table S3 in the Supporting Information) were estimated from single‐carrier PTB7‐Th:SubNc devices by fitting the J–V data (Figure S7 in the Supporting Information) to a space‐charge‐limited current model, resulting in a μ h≈10−4 and a μ e≈10−6 cm2 V−1 s−1 for all four acceptors.
Moreover, the transport of hole and electron in these films is highly imbalanced as suggested by the high μ h /μ e value of >100 for all SubNc‐based acceptors.
It is well recognized that pure domains promote charge dissociation from the donor/acceptor interface, whereas impure domain often results in serious geminate recombination.17 Moreover, charge transport is blocked in such intimately mixed blends due to lack of continuous pathways for the transport of the photogenerated charge carriers, causing accumulation of space charge and recombination losses.
Notably, the highest PCE of SubNcs is much lower than that of our previously reported successful acceptor SubPc‐Cl6‐Cl (1.09 % versus 4.0 %).9a This can be rationalized considering the following aspects.
The small axial chlorine atom favors the formation of head‐to‐tail columnar stacks and thus prompts charge transport, whereas the bulky OPhtBu group precludes this behavior and thus deteriorates charge transport.9a Second, the shorter exciton lifetimes of SubNcs compared to SubPc‐Cl6‐Cl as suggested by the lower fluorescence quantum yields is limiting the fraction of excitons that reach the donor/acceptor interface, in which the exciton dissociates, reducing the EQEs of the SubNcs‐based solar cells.
Third, the SubNcs show redshifted absorption spectra with respect to SubPcs,9a which have a considerable spectral overlap between SubNcs and the polymer donor PTB7‐Th.
In conclusion, boron subnaphthalocyanines bearing different peripheral and axial substituents have been synthesized and utilized as electron acceptors in BHJ polymer solar cells for the first time.
Due to their acceptor character, their blends with PTB7‐Th, a narrow band gap conjugated polymer, exhibit photovoltaic performance with contributions from both the polymer donor and the SubNc acceptor to the photocurrent.
We have demonstrated that nitrogen in ammonium and its derivatives in many chemical systems acts as a pnictogen bond donor and contributes to conferring stability, and hence functionality, to crystalline perovskite systems.
Nitrogen in numerous molecules has been recognized widely as a Lewis base, and thus can serve as an electron density donor D for the formation of various types of intermolecular interactions, including hydrogen bonds (HBs), tetrel bonds (TrBs), pnictogen bonds (PnBs), chalcogen bonds (ChBs) and halogen bonds (XBs), among others (Scheme 1a).
Ammines can act both as hydrogen bond donors and acceptors.
Electron density donors of different types are considered in this section.
Natural Bond Orbital (NBO)’s Second Order Perturbation Theory Analysis of the Fock Matrix in NBO Basis [72,73,74,75], which is valid within the Restricted Hartree-Fock (RHF) approximation, provides insight into the type of charge transfer delocalization energy between the donor NBO (i) and the acceptor NBO (j).
In Equation (3), qi is the donor orbital occupancy, εi and εj are diagonal elements (orbital energies) and F(i,j) is the off-diagonal NBO Fock matrix element.
From these results it is clear that NH4+ is a versatile hydrogen- and pnictogen bond donor, that O in CNO− is a versatile pnictogen bond acceptor and that N in CNO− is a versatile hydrogen bond acceptor.
From the local geometries shown in Figure 9d,e, it is clear that N is a donor of four σ-hole-centered pnictogen bonds, and simultaneously four hydrogen bond donors; this means that each NH4+ unit is surrounded by eight nearest-neighbor Cl− anions in the crystal lattice.
This shows that the Cl− ion is the versatile acceptor of eight non-covalent bonds (four H-bonds and four N-bonds), Figure 9f.
From Figure 27c,d, it is clear that nitrogen bonds occur frequently in the distance range 3.2–3.8 Å, and angular range between 145–175°; these were originated especially when the electron density donors are the heavier halogens, Cl, Br and I.
Our review of crystals structures deposited in the CSD suggests that N in ammonium derivatives is a potential pnictogen bond donor, and is, in part at least, responsible for the stability and functionality of many organic-inorganic hybrid perovskite systems, and hence could be exploited in the design of novel materials for photovoltaics, photocatalysis and other optoelectronics.
A high hole extraction efficiency has been obtained in planar heterojunction (PHJ) OPV cells with SubPc and fullerene materials as the donor and acceptor, respectively1718.
This leads to a higher PCE of OPV cells with a C70 acceptor.
It is also interesting that the increase in spectral response of our new single cell mainly focuses on the absorption of C70 acceptor.
Besides, the donor and acceptor materials used here are all conventional and extensive materials.
These findings suggest that SubPc does not act as a donor but more likely only as an interlayer in these cells.
To prepare the photoactive layer, we dissolved a mixture of poly [4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-25b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-octyl-3-fluorothieno [3,4-b]thiophene)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl]26 (PBDTTT-OFT) as an electron donor polymer and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as an electron acceptor small molecule (1:1.5, 10 mg:15 mg, Figure 5d,e) in 1 mL chlorobenzene with 3 vol% 1,8-diiodooctane (98%, Merck).
Tetrafluoro-tetra-cyanoquiondimethane (F4-TCNQ) is a strong electron acceptor that is widely used to improve the performance of graphene TCEs for various devices [111,112,113].
Graphene can be doped with electrons, that is, n-type doping, via donors such as potassium, ethanol, and ammonia [41,114,115].
This advance has been driven mainly by developing new high-performance materials (new donor-acceptor CPs and non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs)), different device structures (ternary and tandem solar cells), and innovation in manufacturing techniques [1,14,15].
BDT is a widely used electron-donor building-block due to its structural versatility and excellent optical and transport properties, capable of producing high-performance CPs [20,35,36].
Among the electron-acceptor moieties, 2H-benzo[d][1,2,3]triazole (BTz) has been extensively used for photovoltaic applications [37,38,39].
These features mean that fluorescein derivatives can be used as a FRET donor while the poly(BDT-BTz) may act as a FRET acceptor.
A commercially available electron-donor building-block BDT (M1) was employed, while BTz-based electron-acceptor monomers M2 and M3 units were synthesized according to previously reported procedures.
Both polymers exhibited absorption bands in the visible region (524 nm for P1 and 499 nm for P2) due to the intramolecular charge transfer (ITC) between donor and acceptor monomers [48].
The energy transfer efficiency can be estimated from the lifetimes (ET = 1 − τDA·τD−1) [30] to be about 33%, probably because the overlap between the emission of the donor and the absorption of the acceptor is not optimal, as seen in Figure 2c.
According to Schaber’s model [53], the open-circuit voltage (Voc) can be estimated from the following equation: Voc=1e (|EdonorHOMO|−|EacceptorLUMO|)−0.3 where e is the electron charge and 0.3 is an empirical factor for effective exciton dissociation.
Before use, the donor-acceptor blend was stirred at 60 °C for 24 h. Then, 3% v/v of DIO was added to the mixture and stirred for 1 h. The mixture was filtered through a 0.45 µm nylon filter prior to spin-coating.
To evaluate the effect of the FRET on P2-based OSCs, bulk-heterojunction devices with PC61BM as an acceptor were fabricated.
Herein, five zinc phthalocyanine-based donor materials T1–T5 are designed by substituting various groups (isopropoxy, cyano, fluoro, methoxycarbonyl, and dicyanomethyl) around zinc phthalocyanine.
The values of open-circuit voltages achieved with acceptor polymer PC71BM are higher than R except for T1 and are 0.69 V, 1.95 V, 1.20 V, 1.44 V, and 1.84 V for T1, T2, T3, T4, and T5, respectively.
Three electron donor units are on the isoindole sub-unit (named as A) of the macrocycle, while the fourth unit is present on the anchoring group that directly interacts with metal oxide.8 This A3B type configuration of Zn-phthalocyanines allows less steric hindrance with efficient push–pull effects making Zn-phthalocyanines an efficient absorber of sunlight in the near-infrared region.9,10
The difference between HOMOdonor and LUMOacceptor is known as open-circuit voltage.
This report aims to improve the photovoltaic properties of zinc phthalocyanine-based donors via modification of donor moieties.
For this, a newly synthesized molecule, (23-carboxy-2,9,16-tris(diphenylamino)phthalocyanine-29-yl)zinc(ii) complex R19 is modified using specific donor groups like (isopropoxy, cyano, fluoro, methoxycarbonyl, and dicyanomethyl).
The HOMO and LUMO of molecular orbitals clarify the bonding and anti-bonding character of compounds.21 The amount of current, voltage, and effectiveness of the cell is directly proportional to the transfer of electrons from the donor part to the acceptor part of the molecule.
Thus, the transfer of an electron from the donor to the acceptor can be improved by improving the method of electron excitation.22 In Fig.
To avoid self-aggregation, the donor and acceptor parts of the newly designed compounds were set in the 3D method.
The band gap value of compound R was 1.94 eV, while T5 has the lowest (1.80 eV) band gap than all other molecules due to the isopropoxy group bearing the donor characteristics.
Orbital energies of designed donor molecules T1–T5 and reference molecule R at B3LYP/6-31G (d,p) level of theory.
OPDOS and DOS studies help clarify the contribution of donor–acceptor species in the formation of frontier molecular orbitals.
In the spectrum, green and blue colors represent the energy states to occupy for the electron around the donor part of the compound, while red color defines the acceptor moiety.
In the graph of density of state, the space between the acceptor and donor part of the compound is represented by the band gap (Eg).
The band gap is the energy needed for electron excitation.26 In this study, smaller energy is required to excite the electrons from the acceptor to the donor part for all the compounds.
The λh value of the reference is greater than the designed donor compound T1, which means that the mobility of charges of the reference is lower than the T1 compound.
The higher value of dipole moment also reduces the disorder between acceptor and donor, resulting in the significantly increased value of charge mobility between acceptor and donor.
The value of open-circuit voltage is calculated by the difference between the ELUMO of the acceptor and EHOMO of the donor of the molecule.
The designed molecules (T1–T5) are the donors and are suitable to manufacture OPV devices, and due to this reason, we compare our donor molecules with an acceptor molecule named PCBM (6,6-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester).32 The open-circuit voltage results obtained from eqn (3) with respect to LUMOPC71BM–HOMOdonor energy gaps are represented in Fig.
The molecular orbital diagram shows the difference between the EHOMO of donor compounds (T1–T5) and ELUMO of the PCBM acceptor molecule.
(a) Open circuit voltage (Voc) of designed donor molecules T1–T5 and reference R with respect to PC71BM acceptor, (b) orbital energy diagram of reference R and designed donor molecules T1–T5 with PC71BM acceptor polymer.
The orbital energy of R and T1–T5 donors with respect to PC71BM acceptor are represented in Fig.
The LUMO of PC71BM is less than the LUMO of donor molecules (R, T1, T2, T3, T4, and T5).
This arrangement shifts the charge density from designed donor molecules (T1, T2, T3, T4, T5) to acceptor PC71BM, which results in improved photovoltaic properties of all designed molecules.
TDM graphs are used to estimate (i) the process of excitations of electrons, (ii) delocalization and localization method of electron–hole pair, and (iii) interaction between the acceptor and donor part of the molecule.
We divide our designed compound into acceptor (A) and donor (D) part to evaluate the TDMs.
The transition density matrix map shows the coherence of electrons of T1–T5 compounds and reference R having small coherence on acceptor parts and largely on donor moiety of the molecules.
The order of interaction coefficients between acceptor and donor parts of molecules is T1 > T3 > R > T5 > T4 > T2.
Furthermore, the Eg value of T1 is lower than T2, T3, T4, and R. The exciton binding energies and transition density matrix (TDM) studies indicate the high charge transfer rate because of the lower Eb for T1–T5 than R. Open circuit voltage results are achieved with acceptor polymer PC71BM.
The effect of gradually replacing the branched alkyl side chains of a diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) conjugated polymer by linear side chains containing branched siloxane end groups on the photovoltaic performance of blends of these polymers with a common fullerene acceptor is investigated.
Organic bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells have attracted attention over the past years as a novel, green energy technology.1,2 An essential parameter influencing the performance of these solar cells is the morphology of the BHJ layer, which has been shown to be directly influenced by the solubility of the components in the processing solvents.3–6 In particular, it has been found that in blends consisting of a polymer donor and a fullerene acceptor, the polymer should self-organize to achieve a high power conversion efficiency (PCE).
In conjugated polymers, a straightforward way to influence the solubility and tendency to aggregate is to alter the solubilizing side-chains, which strongly influences the solar cell performance.6–13 By introducing chemical functionalities other than alkyl side chains in these polymers, a further fine-tuning of the aggregation behavior can be achieved.9,11,14–16 Additionally, by changing the side-chains also the miscibility of the donor and acceptor17,18 and the packing of the polymer chains can be affected.
Also in solar cells siloxane containing polymers have been introduced to increase crystallinity of the electron donor, influencing the morphology of the blend layers.25–28 This has led to highly performance solar cells, with PCE of 11%, when siloxane side chains were combined with regular alkyl chains within the same polymer.27 Interestingly, it was shown that the number average molecular weight (Mn) decreased with increasing siloxane content, as polymers with high siloxane content were less soluble and could not reach high Mn's before becoming insoluble.27
For the active layer, the polymers were combined with [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester ([70]PCBM) as an acceptor in a 1 : 2 weight ratio and spin coated from solutions in chloroform containing 2% diphenyl ether (DPE).
Exciton mobility, e.g., could be affected by the increased d-spacing of the siloxane containing polymers, further hindering exciton dissociation at the donor–acceptor interface.
A varying ratio of siloxane and alkyl side chains was introduced on PDPPTPT to tune the molecular weight and solubility and investigate the effect of these two parameters on the performance of bulk heterojunction solar cells with a common fullerene acceptor.
It is formed through the mixing of p-type donor and n-type acceptor semiconducting materials.
Various organic semiconducting materials have been used as donor and acceptor materials for indoor OSCs so far.
Owing to their satisfactory charge transport properties and desirable absorption spectra, various fullerene-based organic semiconductors, such as indene-C60 bisadduct (ICBA), phenyl-C61-butyric-acid-methyl ester (PC61BM), and [6,6]-phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), have been initially used as acceptor materials for indoor OSCs (Figure 8) [43].
Subsequently, some non-fullerene organic semiconducting materials, such as IO-4Cl, IT-4F, ITCC, ITIC-M, TPDI2N-EH, PBN-11, and ITIC-F, have been introduced as acceptors, owing to their better response to low-intensity indoor light (Figure 8) [43].
Subsequently, various organic semiconducting polymers and small molecules, such as P3HT, PBDTTT-EFT, PBDB-T, PCDTBT, PPDT2FBT, BTR, DTCPB, and P1 (Figure 9), have been utilized as donor materials of OSCs for indoor applications [43].
Various aspects, such as the weight ratio of donor and acceptor materials, the thickness and surface morphology of the film, and the nature of the solvent, should be monitored for the formation of the active layer.
fabricated an OSC based on a PTB7-Th donor and PC70BM acceptor and determined that the PCE of the device was approximately 10.55% under the illumination of a 186 lx LED lamp [39].
tested OSCs based on three different semiconducting donors, i.e., P3HT, PCDTBT, and PTB7, and a fullerene-based acceptor PC71BM under the illumination of low-intensity indoor light [104].
In addition to the use of binary BHJ active materials, some researchers attempted to use multi-donor and -acceptor BHJs to achieve a better PCE through the improvement of the absorption window [13,22,109,110].
later developed a quaternary BHJ using two donors (PCDTBT and PTB7) and two acceptors (PC61BM and PC71BM) [13].
In addition, Cui and co-workers achieved PCE above 26% under an LED lamp (1000 lx) through the utilization of a wide-bandgap non-fullerene acceptor IO-4Cl and a polymer donor PBDB-TF [102].
Different types of device fabrication technologies, donor-acceptor materials, HTLs, ETLs, and substrates have been employed to achieve better performance.
For example, a transition from fullerene to non-fullerene acceptors for ISCs has been observed in the past few years as the latter type of acceptors have higher photon absorption ability in the visible range and tunable molecular and optical bandgap energies.
A PCE ~27% under the illumination of a 1000 lx LED light has been achieved in a laboratory environment from an OSC based on an organic polymer donor (PBDB-TF) and non-fullerene (IO-4Cl) acceptor.
In response to these concerns, researchers have been working on non-toxic or ‘green’ solvent ink formations for OPV application.8–11 Non-toxic solvents, in particular, aqueous nanoparticulate organic photovoltaics (NP-OPV) have been investigated in our group since last ten years and the device efficiency has steadily increased from 1.4% to 3.3%.12–15 Other research groups using different donor–acceptor materials have reported NP-OPV device performance in the range of 1.9% to 3.8%.16,17 More recently, the efficiency of aqueous NP-OPV devices has reached 7.5% through the use of removable surfactants.18
Previous work to improve device efficiency has focussed on investigating the donor–acceptor mixed NP domain morphology and its associated photo-physics.19 This research identified the origin of the poor performance of these NP-OPV devices to be: (1) the presence of excess surfactant in the photoactive layer; (2) poor wetting of aqueous nanoparticle inks resulting in low film quality in the photoactive layer; (3) improper distribution of the donor and acceptor material domains in the photoactive layer, leading to poor charge generation.18,20
to form highly intermixed donor–acceptor film morphology.22 However, the issue of poor charge generation in NP-OPV devices has yet to be addressed and requires, through careful nanoscale engineering, the development of new NP-OPV structures that are able to enhance charge generation and extraction.
15 mg of P3HT polymer donor material and 15 mg of PC61BM fullerene acceptor material were mixed in 560 μl of anhydrous chloroform and stirred at 500 rpm, 35 °C for 25 min on a hotplate to form organic phase.
In this work, we synthesized a molecularly encapsulated version of the naphthalene diimide bithiophene copolymer PNDIT2, which is among the most popular high charge mobility organic semiconductors in n-type field-effect transistors and non-fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaic blends.
Naphthalene diimide (NDI)-based π-conjugated polymers have become one of the most heavily studied conjugated polymers for electron transport as they exhibit good electronic properties in relevant optoelectronic devices, such as high charge carrier mobility in n-type OFETs and as non-fullerene acceptors in OPV blends.33−35 By preparing a molecularly encapsulated version of the most well-known polymer (i.e., PNDIT2 or otherwise known as P(NDI2OD-T2)) in this study, we can therefore probe the effect of molecular encapsulation on its photophysical and electron transporting properties.
As for other donor–acceptor copolymers,38−42 the absorption spectra are characterized by a high energy band ascribed to the π–π* transition and by a low-energy band corresponding to the intramolecular charge-transfer (CT) transition, which reflects a redistribution of the charge density along the polymer chain from the donor moiety (i.e., the T2 unit) to the acceptor one (i.e., the NDI unit).
Several studies highlighted the impact of PNDIT2 preaggregation in solution on the microstructural properties of thin films formed upon solution casting.43,54−57 On the one hand, preaggregation is a key requirement to achieve thin films with improved energetic order and with a preferential alignment of the polymer chains, resulting in superior charge transport properties.55,56,58,59 On the other hand, the formation of crystalline clusters can be detrimental for applications requiring an interpenetrating network of different materials, as in the case of donor and acceptor polymers in bulk heterojunction solar cells44,60,61 or of doped blends based on organic semiconductors for thermoelectric applications.62,63
This feature is strongly desirable in blends of donor and acceptor organic semiconductors for bulk heterojunction solar cells and to reach effective intercalation of molecular dopants within a polymeric matrix for organic thermoelectrics.
In the current study, with the objective to improve the overall performance of organic solar cells, seven new W-shaped small molecular acceptors – were developed theoretically by the end-group alteration of the reference (WR) molecule.
Some of the optoelectronic aspects of a well-known fused ring based acceptor named Y6 are also compared with the studied W-shaped molecules.
The open circuit voltage (VOC) of all the considered small molecular acceptors was calculated by pairing them with the PTB7-Th donor.
Their VOC was calculated by making complexes of them with the PTB7-Th donor.
They also hold considerable potential in advancing the achievement of carbon-neutral energy.1–6 Due to substantial advancements in materials research, mechanics, and device fabrication, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs) has increased from 11% to 19% in the previous five years.7 Although fullerene-based OSCs have dominated the photovoltaic market for more than 20 years, their dominance has been limited owing to a number of negative features, including poor absorption in the UV-visible range, reduced tunability of energy levels, and high prices.8 Thus, the steady rise in the PCEs of OPVs over the past five years could be due to the endless expansion of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).
A prominent class of NFAs, namely the fused-ring electron acceptors (FREAs), were successful in bringing OSCs to an upgraded level of performance.13–16 The fused-ring core in the molecular skeleton of the FREAs is the most noticeable structural feature of their structure.1 Poly-heterocyclic fused-ring units, i.e., indacenodithiophene (IDT),17–19 indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT),13,20 thienothiophen[3,2-b]-pyrrolobenzothiadiazole,14,15,21,22 or thienothiophen[3,2-b]-pyrrolo benzotriazole23–25 are known to be the key to the revolutionary architectural engineering of acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) or A–D–A–D–A structural designs.
So, NFAs with a shortened structural configuration, as well as simplified fabrication procedures with mildly hazardous chemicals are indisputably more significant.32 These non-fullerene acceptors based exclusively on two to three heterocycle-based structures may be regarded as simple fused-ring acceptors (SFAs).33 The SFA molecules of the NFAs class of OPVs have recently attracted a lot of interest.34 Scientists have synthesized benzodithiophenedione (BDD) based small SFA molecules (BDDEH-4F and BDDBO-4F) by a straight heteroarylation approach free from ligands.
As compared to the formal approaches towards the synthesis, only three steps were employed for the synthesis of these small acceptor molecules.
The significance of the BDD core can be estimated by the fact that the well-known polymer donors PM6 ref.
For instance, the difference in the maximum absorption wavelength of both these molecules in the absorption spectrum was of only 1 nm.32 So, from the framework of these molecules, we have developed seven new W-shaped acceptor molecules (W1–W7) of A2-D-A1-D-A2 types through end-capped engineering, i.e., substituting the existing terminal groups with some innovative electron withdrawing groups.
Y6, a very widely reported acceptor molecule with fused-ring based core possesses some excellent optoelectronic properties such as smaller Egap, excellent charges mobility and exciton binding energy etc.14 Our W-shaped newly developed have structural similarities with Y6, so in this study we have also compared some of the optoelectronic properties of Y6 with newly proposed molecule.
Furthermore, PyMOlyze 1.1 software50 was used to examine the role of different fragments (donor, acceptor1 and acceptor2) of the molecules in the density of states (DOS)51 of WR and W1–W7 molecules.
In this research, we have considered WR as our reference molecule, which contain 1,3-dimethyl-2,6-dithia-s-indacene-4,8-dione as the central acceptor unit (A1) that is further attached to 4,4-dimethyl-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b;3,4-b′]dithiophene parts, which are actually the donor fragments (D) of molecule, and finally 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-malononitrile that act as the peripheral acceptor part (A2) and has direct attachment with the donor fragments making the overall molecule as A2–D–A1–D–A2 type.
Thus, the existing terminal acceptor groups, on both sides, were replaced with new electron acceptor groups, i.e., 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile (W1), 6-cyano-1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester (W2), 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester (W3), 2-(6-fluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (W4), 2-(1-chloro-5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile (W5), 2-(2-bromo-6-methylene-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-1-thia-s-indacen-5-ylidene)-malononitrile (W6), and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (W7).
It is understandable that the length of single and double bonds between two carbons (C–C and C   <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="13.200000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 13.200000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.017500,-0.017500)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 440 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z M0 280 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z"/></g></svg>  C) is 1.54 nm and 1.34 nm, respectively, whereas all compounds analysed had a bond length of 1.40–1.41 nm, at their point of attachment of the A2 acceptors to the donors (pictorially demonstrated in Fig.
All of the molecules studied here, exhibited dihedral angles ranging from 0.0008 to 0.2507°, which shows that the newly attached acceptor moieties have not affected the favorable planar topology of the molecules.
Charge density in the ground state (HOMO) is concentrated on the molecule's core acceptors (A1) and donors (D), but this charge density seemed to also move towards the molecule's end-group acceptors when excited (LUMO), clearly demonstrating the efficiency of transfer of charge from the ground states to the excited states.
End-capped acceptor groups of W1 molecules include pairs of strongly electron withdrawing cyano groups, which could contribute to this stability.
Here, IP is the amount of energy required by a molecule for the donation of its electrons, while EA is that energy, which is released over the addition of electron to a molecule.62 Molecules with small IP and EA values exhibit ability to donate electrical charge efficiently, reason is that the electron donor moieties disrupt the HOMO energy state by facilitating electron transportation, hence causing a smaller IP and EA, while molecules with strong electron-pulling groups possess higher IPs and EAs, because of the stability of the HOMO as a result of which electron removal becomes more difficult.63 In present research, IP and EA values have been estimated using eqn (3) and (4).643IP = [E0+ − E0]4EA = [E0 − E0−]
Overall, the greater IP and EA of W1 and W2 molecules, illustrates their efficient abilities as acceptor components in the organic PV cells.
Also, the greater EA values of W3–W5 molecules, favors the better abilities of these molecules as acceptors in comparison to WR.
The λmax of Y6 acceptor molecule is 731 nm in CHCl3 solvent.14 On the other hand, W1–W7 molecules have the λmax range from 668 nm to 691 nm and 711 nm to 748 nm in the gaseous phase and CHCl3 solvent, respectively.
Findings show that W1 has the greatest λmax in both phases, specifically, 691 nm in gas and 748 nm in solvent medium, indicating the existence of prominent end-capped acceptor (1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile) that might have influenced its wavelength of maximum absorption (λmax).
Overall, it can be said that all our designed acceptor molecules would be efficient candidates for solution manufacturing of organic solar cells.
Y6 has smallest Ex (1.33 eV)69 than all other studied W-shaped (WR, W1–W7) acceptor molecules (Tables 3 and 4).
According to the results, the terminal acceptor moieties have a significant impact on the LHE of these small molecules.
It is important to conduct DOS studies, in order to better understand how the functions of each molecules' fragments (donor, acceptor1 and acceptor2) and overall performances of molecules are validated in terms of their respective DOS, i.e., partial and total DOS, respectively, in the molecules' charge mobility.73 It is an important factor in determining how frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs) are arranged in terms of the Mulliken charge density.
In this study, each molecule was fragmented into three portions, namely, donor, acceptor1, and acceptor2, for the investigation of the contributions of each fragments to the FMOs.
8, the contributions of the acceptor2, acceptor1, donor moieties, as well as the total contribution of the molecules (WR and W1–W7) as a whole, in raising the FMOs can be seen as black, red, green, and blue lines, respectively.
Involvement of donor, acceptor2, and acceptor1 fragments in the formation of FMOs of WR and W1–W7 molecules
For all the newly developed and the WR molecule, the donor group is the largest contributor to the elevation of ground state (HOMO).
The acceptor1 and acceptor2, both have comparable but low contribution in HOMO energy level, although acceptor2 showed a bit more contribution than acceptor1.
The major contributor of the excited state (LUMO) is acceptor2.
These results evaluate that charges are to be transported from the electron rich fragments (donor) of molecules at the ground state to the electron withdrawing fragments (acceptor2) of molecules in the excited state via successive conjugation.
On ESP maps, the nitrogen and oxygen atoms at the peripheral acceptor regions of the molecules appear dark red, indicating the presence of prominent electron density over these sites.
The oxygen atoms of the acceptor part of the core (A1) also depict red on the maps, hence the presence of electron density across these spots is readily visible.
These ESP maps show that the donor parts containing thiophene rings, as well as methyl groups, have a severe lack of electrons on certain places of the molecules, which is shown by a blue color.
At MPW1PW91 functional, reorganization energies (RE) of W1–W7 and WR molecules were calculated to investigate the charge transfer mobility from electron donor to acceptor fragments.
It is the RE, which measures the amount of charge that could be transferred from donor to acceptor components of a molecule, and is associated with the mobility of hole and electron charge, which is the primary driving force behind the development of proficient materials for OSCs.75 The mobility of these charges (electrons and holes) is actually inversely proportional to the RE.76 Because of this, the charge transfer will be more efficient if the value of the RE is lowered.
Both the anionic and cationic geometries point to the movement of electrons and holes in between the donor and the acceptor units.
In comparison to the other molecules tested, the RE of molecule W1 was found to be the lowest (0.1449 eV), indicating that the new terminal acceptors in this molecule have played an important role in boosting its electron mobility.
It can be said that till now W1 molecule has proved itself to be the best acceptor molecule amongst all.
The W5 molecule's hole RE has decreased dramatically, showing that the end-group acceptor is actively contributing to the reduction of the molecule's RE in order to its improve hole mobility.
The RE of a very widely known acceptor molecule Y6 for λ− and λ+ is 0.15 eV and 0.16 eV77 and by comparing these energies with our newly proposed molecules, it was estimated that W1 and W5 molecules are better than Y6 molecule in the aspect of electron and hole mobilities, respectively.
Overall, the low λ− values of all molecules in comparison to their λ+ values, except for W5, signifies their enhanced abilities to act as acceptors in advanced organic photovoltaic cells.
TDM analysis seems to be necessary in prediction of the exciton (electron hole pair) transition between donor–acceptor areas at particular locations in conjugated chemical systems.78,79 Predicted charge transitions, fundamental charge locations, and imaging of exciton mobility during emission, as well as absorption processes, in an excited state could all be examined in this analysis.80 In order to understand the mobility of charges within a molecule, and to evaluate electronic properties, such as effects of resonance, as well as extent of delocalization, a TDM plot is commonly used.
It was necessary to divide the molecule into three parts in order to calculate the transition pathway, and these three parts were designated as donor (D), acceptor1 (A1), and acceptor2 (A2), as shown in Fig.
The flow of charge could be identified to be moving effectively from donor to acceptor1 and acceptor2, suggesting that the entire molecule is undergoing sequential conjugation.
A low interaction coefficient of W1 indicates that the donor and acceptor parts of this molecule are able to efficiently transmit electrons from one to the other.
Open circuit voltage (VOC) can be used to evaluate the photovoltaic activity of any solar instrument, and is an important part in figuring out how the instrument works.84VOC truly represents the entire possible voltage provided by an optical device, when no external load is present.85 Various photovoltaic features influence the VOC, such as incident light, charge transfer, temperature of the solar device, etc.86 The donor material's valence band is usually coupled with the acceptor material's conduction band, resulting in optimum voltage.
A lower HOMO level in the donor compound and a greater LUMO level in the acceptor compound are required for the increased VOC values.
To achieve the highest possible VOC, the HOMO level of polymer donor PTB7-Th was paired with the LUMO of the reference and newly assumed small acceptor molecules in the current study (WR, W1–W7).
According to the available research, PTB7-Th is a reliable donor with HOMO energy of −5.20 eV and LUMO of −3.60 eV.88 In this research, VOC was estimated statistically using the following eqn (7):707e represents the molecular charge that is 1 in the equation above, while inter-surface charge is another factor with general used value of 0.3.
Theoretically predicted VOC of WR and W1–W7 acceptor molecules by pairing them with PTB7-Th donor.
The VOC at the acceptor and donor molecules' interface has a significant impact on this aspect.
In the current study, with the objective to boost the efficiency of organic solar cells, seven new W-shaped small molecule acceptors (W1–W7) of A2-D-A1-D-A2 were developed theoretically by the end-group alteration of the reference (WR) molecule.
VOC of all the studied small molecular acceptors was calculated by pairing them with PTB7-Th donor.
The cell efficiency can be increased by splitting the excitons at the interface between an electron donor, a p-type semiconductor, and an electron acceptor, an n-type semiconductor (so-called heterojunction).
Ideally, bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structures (Figure 1) represent the case of a bicontinuous composite of donor and acceptor phases, thereby maximizing the interfacial area between these two components.
[69] demonstrated that the Voc in polymer/fullerene-based solar cells is strongly dependent on the difference between HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO level of the acceptor.
Therefore, a broad range of arylacetylenes has been synthesized and evaluated for use in OPVs, going from donor small molecules to (co)polymers to donor (oligomer or polymer)-fullerene hybrids.
Recently, increasing attention has focused on soluble small molecules (S) as donors, since they offer the facile processing associated with polymers, are monodisperse, are easier to purify, and typically exhibit higher charge carrier mobilities [73,74] compared to other organic semiconductor.
To date, the small molecule solar cells with the highest PCE (i.e., 4.4%) have been fabricated with an active layer composed of a blend of a diketopyrrolopyrrole-containing oligothiophene (donor), and a fullerene derivative C71-PCBM (acceptor) [75].
[76] reported photovoltaic cells based on solution-processed blends using easily prepared 2,8-diethyl-5,11-bis(triethylsilylethynyl)anthradithiophene (S1) (Figure 2) as the donor and (6,6)-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as the acceptor.
Very recently, we reported the synthesis of new anthracene derivatives (S4–S7) [78,79] (Figure 2) and their implementation as donors in bulk heterojunction solar cells having PCEs of up to ∼1.2% under standard AM1.5G conditions.
Each donor system was designed to achieve both high solubility in common organic solvents and an extension of the absorption spectra toward low energies to enhance solar light harvesting.
The OPV active layers consisted of one of compounds S4–S7 as the donor and PCBM as the acceptor, blended in a 1:1 wt/wt ratio.
The open-circuit voltage values for devices fabricated with olefinic compounds S4 and S5 were lower than those for acetylenic donors S6 and S7 and, interestingly, track the progression in the HOMO energy levels.
The short circuit currents measured for devices based on olefinic donors S4 and S5 were low, affording a poor PCE, especially for S4/PCBM (i.e., 0.04%).
On the other hand, the devices fabricated with acetylenic donors S6 and S7 exhibited short-circuit current densities of 2.62 and 2.64 mA/cm2, respectively, and substantial open circuit voltages of 0.96 and 0.93 V, respectively.
BHJ solar cells based on the acetylenic donors employed in this study were found to be significantly more efficient than those based on the olefinic donors, thus underscoring the potential of acetylenic π-donors in organic photovoltaics.
It is known that active layer morphology plays a key role in the device fabrication; a better dispersion of SWNTs would inevitably lead to higher donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces in the active layer, which facilitates the efficiency of exciton dissociation, and provides more conducting channels for charge transfer, thus leading to a high power conversion efficiency.
The difference in electron affinity between the donor (P3) and acceptor (SWNTs) originated a built-in potential that broke the symmetry, thereby providing a driving force for the dissociation of the photo-generated excitons into electrons and holes.
Supporting the idea about the origin of the open circuit potential [69] originates from the quasi-Fermi level splitting between the donor HOMO and the acceptor LUMO, a lower donor HOMO level corresponds, in general, to an improvement in the device efficiencies.
By using P14 as donor material the same authors achieved a device exhibiting Voc = 0.72 V, Jsc = 1.86 mA/cm2 and FF = 38%.
Indeed, longer side chains not only limited the interfacial area between the donor conjugated backbone and the acceptor components, but might also favor an easy recombination of the photo-generated charges by elongating the percolating path as well as hampering the transfer of charges to the electrodes.
To better evaluate the efficiency of acetylene-based polymers, Sellinger and coworkers [99] compared poly(2,5-dioctyloxy-1,4-phenylene-ethynylene-9,10-anthracenylene-ethynylene-2,5-dioctyloxy-1,4-phenylene-vinylene-2,5-di(2′-ethyl)hexyloxy-1,4-phenylene-vinylene (A-PPE-PPV) (P9) and P3HT with a novel acceptor material, 4,7-bis(2-(1-hexyl-4,5-dicyanoimidazol-2-yl)-0vinyl)benzo[c]1,2,5-thiadiazole (V-BT).
By using this acceptor, the efficiency in the P3HT-based solar cells was limited by an incomplete dissociation of the photo-generated excitons, as indicated by incomplete photoluminescence (PL) quenching.
The low FF (30%–40%) observed for each donor polymer blended with V-BT was attributed to low electron mobility.
Polythiophenes, e.g., poly(3-hexylthiophene), have been proven to be efficient donor materials for photovoltaic devices in conjunction with fullerenes.
Indeed, a higher number of triple bonds resulted in lowering the mobility of the photo-generated charges, and also enabled strong π–π interactions among the donor molecules, thereby limiting the contact area between donor and acceptor molecules.
This was attributed to a larger donor-acceptor interfacial area in P15- than in P16-based cells, as evidenced by the smaller nanoscale clusters size observed in the AFM topology.
The AFM images did not show clear donor–acceptor phase separation of the active layer in P18 and P19 cells, thus confirming their similar photovoltaic performance.
The alternation of donor and acceptor units in the main chain of P20 resulted in the considerable shift of the maximum absorption band position to a longer wavelength of 485 nm compared with that of pure PPE (374 nm), indicating the presence of extensive π-conjugated system.
[106] prepared a novel tetrathiafulvalene (TTF)-fused poly(arylene ethynylene) P22 (PAE-TTF, Figure 8) where the linear main chain acts as electron-deficient acceptor and the π-conjugated TTF units act as electron-rich donor in the side chains.
Effective π–π stacking in the solid state was ensured from the coplanarity of the acceptor main chain and the donor TTF side chains.
[108,109] employed alkoxy-substituted CN-containing phenylene-vinylene-phenylene-ethynylene hybrid copolymers (CN-PPE-PPV), P25 and P26 (Figure 10), as acceptors in single layer, bilayer and bulk heterojunction devices.
The inclusion of the cyano group caused a decrease in the HOMO and LUMO energy levels, which perfectly matched donor, poly[2,5-dimethoxy-1,4-phenylene-1,2-ethenylene-2-methoxy-5-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene-1,2-ethenylene (M3EH-PPV).
This hypothesis was supported by the photovoltaic performance of P25 and P26 in bilayer devices, which was found to decrease with increasing thickness of the acceptor layer.
In particular, in the case of P25 (two triple bonds), the FF dropped from ∼23% from the thinnest acceptor layer to less than 13% for the thickest, whereas it dropped to ∼18% for compound P25 (one triple bond).
[110] synthesized two poly(heteroaryleneethynylene) derivatives containing thieno[3,4-b]pyrazine as the acceptor and thiophene (P27) or dialkoxyphenylene (P28) as the donor, respectively, to achieve absorption in the 390–800 nm region (Figure 11).
Both materials have low optical band-gaps (∼1.57 eV), due to donor-acceptor push-pull effects through the conjugated triple bonds.
Photovoltaic devices based on the blends of P27, P28 (as electron donor) and PCBM (as electron acceptor) has been fabricated on a polyester foil.
The long lifetime of the triplet state may enhance the probability of exciton diffusion to a donor-acceptor interface.
The best ratio between donor and acceptor was found 1:4 wt/wt because of a better phase separation.
Changing the acceptor from PCBM to PC71BM the authors found that it was possible to increase the cell efficiency, due to the better absorbance and charge transport properties of the latter.
[129] developed two polymers which feature a π-conjugated segment consisting of a 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole acceptor moiety flanked on either side by 2,5-thienyl donor (p-Pt-BTD-Th, MP15), and (3,4-ethylendioxy)-2,5-thienyl (p-PtBTD-EDOT, MP19) donor units, respectively (Figure 13).
When tested in OPV device, if the BTD unit was flanked by (3,4-ethylenedioxy)-2,5-thienyl donors (MP19) a maximum PCE of 0.78%, a short circuit current of 4.56 mA/cm2 and a Voc of 0.50 V were achieved.
The results pointed to the fact that, in order to harness the triplet excitons for charge separation in low-band-gap materials, it is necessary to manipulate the energy levels of either the polymer or the acceptor.
Other examples were recently reported [131] both with PC71BM and PC61BM as acceptors.
The overall power conversion efficiency of the BHJ solar cells incorporating these organometallic “polymers as donors and PC71BM (or PC61BM) as acceptor varied widely among the polymers.
In addition to a possible answer to the problem of phase segregation and clustering phenomena, it is also possible to provide new synthetic tools for a more global control of the interface between the π-conjugated donor and the fullerene acceptor.
This should allow a fine tuning of relevant parameters such as the ratio, distance, relative orientation and mode of connection of the donor and acceptor groups.
This demonstrated that DF5 acted as an efficient electron acceptor in combination with P3HT as electron donor.
The formation of a charge separate state was more pronounced for DF7, whose central core presents a stronger donor character.
[140] synthesized a donor-acceptor triad (DF8, Figure 15) consisting of a platinum-acetylide oligomer that contains fulleropyrrolidine moieties.
The authors aimed at gaining insight into the mechanism, efficiency and dynamics of photoinduced charge transfer from the platinum-acetylide chromophore to a fullerene acceptor.
[142] used anionic poly-(phenylene ethynylene)-based conjugated polyelectrolytes (CPE) as electron donors (DF10–DF11), combined with a water-soluble cationic fullerene C60 (C60-NH3+) derivative as the acceptor (Figure 16) to fabricate thin-film photovoltaic cells using the layer-by-layer technique.
Combining absorption spectroscopy, atomic force microscopy (AFM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and XPS it was demonstrated that the deposited layers were spatially uniform, relatively smooth, and free of long-range phase segregation between the donor CPE and acceptor components.
Donor-acceptor dyads (i.e., fullerene derivatives-p-type olygomers/polymers) seem to be promising as well, even though it is not yet clear what is the device limiting step (electron transfer, charge transport, etc) when these systems are used as active layer.
As a donor in organic photovoltaics (OPVs), power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of up to 2.18% were achieved, which is the first example of using an azine-based polymer for OPVs.
For organic solar cells to achieve large scale commercialization, low-cost organic semiconductors must be developed.5–9 Among polymer donors, regioregular head-to-tail poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) has the lowest synthetic complexity since it can be synthesized in two steps starting from 3-hexylthiophene via the McCullough10,11 or Rieke12 method.
−5.0 eV, which is too high as a donor for OPVs since the open circuit voltage (Voc) of the devices would be inevitably low.
One approach to solve this issue is to develop acceptors with a higher lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level.13,14 However, the room for improvement is restricted by the stability of the acceptor since a sufficiently low LUMO level (ca.
To lower the HOMO level of a thiophene-containing polymer, one can simply incorporate an electron withdrawing building block in the polymer backbone, which has led to numerous successes in achieving high Voc and high PCE using those so-called donor–acceptor (D–A)-type polymer donors in OPVs18–20 although laborious synthetic processes for the acceptor building block and polymers are required.
Here we report the facile synthesis of a new azine polymer based on bithiophene and azine units, PDDBTA, which exhibited good performances as a p-type semiconductor channel material in OTFTs and as a donor in OPVs.
Then the substrates were transferred to a nitrogen filled glove box, where the PDDBTA (or P3HT) and the PCBM blend (36 mL−1 mg total in 1,2-DCB in the ratio 1 : 2 (donor : acceptor)) layer with a thickness of 120 nm was spin-coated onto the ZnO layer at 1000 rpm (the donor : acceptor ratio and thickness were optimized as shown in Table S4†).
The photovoltaic performance of PDDBTA as a donor was studied in OPVs with an inverted structure (ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoOx/Ag) with phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as the acceptor.
The attainable Voc of an OPV device for a donor : PCBM system can be estimated by an empirical equation: eVOC = Eg_eff − 0.3 eV, where Eg_eff is effective donor–acceptor energy gap (ELUMO (PCBM) − EHOMO (donor)), e is the elementary charge, and 0.3 eV is an energy loss including the energy required to offset the exciton binding energy of an exciton.35,36 If a LUMO level for PCBM (ELUMO (PCBM)) of −4.3 eV is taken,35 the estimated attainable Voc for the PDDBTA : PCBM based device would be 0.95 V. The lower-than-expected Voc obtained for the PDDBTA : PCBM OPVs indicates a large energy loss, which is likely caused by the poor film morphology of the active layer36 (vide infra).
To investigate the cause for the significantly lower Jsc of the PDDBTA : PCBM devices, photoluminescence quenching experiments were carried out to characterize the effectiveness of exciton diffusion and charge transfer from donor to PCBM acceptor phase of the active layer.
A photoluminescence quenching of 97% was observed for the PDDBTA : PCBM blend with respect to the photoluminescence of donor (Fig.
S10†), which suggests that the exciton diffusion from the donor phase to the donor–acceptor interface and the subsequent exciton dissociation processes were quite efficient.
The critical parameters governing this step are the hole and electron mobilities in the respective donor and acceptor phases.
In comparison, in a study of air stability of OPV devices using some common polymer donors paired with PCBM acceptor, the unencapsulated devices with similar structures showed PCE drops of 35% for P3HT : PCBM, 50% for PTB7 : PCBM and 75% for PBDTTT-EFT (or PCE10) : PCBM after 200 h of shelf storage under ambient conditions.38 The good stability of the PDDBTA : PCBM based OPV devices indicates that PDDBTA is quite stable both chemically and morphologically in the active layer.
Further efforts such as side chain optimization will be made to improve the solubility and compatibility of the azine polymer with the acceptor to improve the film morphology.
Moreover, this polymer can be used as a donor in OPVs, achieving PCEs of up to 2.18%, which is the first example of using an azine-based semiconductor polymer in OPVs.
Known molecular systems that adhere to the stipulated energetic and morphological demands include polyacenes,17−36 rylene dyes,11,37−40 donor–acceptor polymers,41−47 and carotenoids,48,49 many of which have exhibited ultrafast rates of singlet fission and quantum yields above 100% for the generation of triplets.
In both cases, the complexes are formed of neutral molecules in which two nearly identical organic ligands are fully deprotonated (N-H and O-H protons) and coordinated to the metal center as tetradentate ONNO-donors.
One of the two distinct ligands is coordinated to the central metal ion as a fully deprotonated tetradentate ONNO-donor, whereas the second ligand is coordinated as a partially deprotonated tridentate ONN-donor.
[Ni(HL)2] is formed of neutral molecules, where the two organic ligands are coordinated to the metal centre as three-dentate ONN-donors in a nearly symmetric fashion.
Herein, two N‐functionalized asymmetrical small molecule acceptors (SMAs), namely N7IT and N8IT are designed and synthesized, to explore the effect of N on reducing E loss with sulfur (S) as a comparison.
Finally, this work sheds light on the structure–property relationship of the N‐functionalization, particularly on its effects on reducing the E loss, which could inspire the community to design and synthesize more N‐functionalized SMAs.By designing N‐functionalized asymmetrical acceptors N7IT and N8IT, the effects of nitrogen (N) atom on reducing nonradiative recombination loss (ΔE 3) and dipole moment on morphology are revealed.
Owing to their advantages in fabricating lightweight, flexible and semitransparent photovoltaic panels through cost‐effective printing methods, bulk‐heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) have shown great prospects for the smart‐city and indoor applications.1, 2, 3 The past two decades have witnessed the rapid increase of the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs with the main contribution from the innovation of photoactive materials,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 device optimization,11, 12 and interface engineering.13, 14 The breakthroughs in the material design and synthesis of small molecule acceptors (SMAs) has seen impressive progresses since 2015, opening a new landscape for OSCs.15 The state‐of‐the‐art SMAs are mainly based on an acceptor‐donor‐acceptor (A‐D‐A) structure, e.g., the fused‐ring electron acceptors (FREAs), with ITIC as the most representative example.
From a chemistry point of view, the structures of donor and acceptor materials can be simply considered as a combination of a carbon skeleton and a set of functional atoms that are connected by single, double or triple bonds.
Polymer donors based on these N‐functionalized moieties achieve over 11% PCE when blending with fullerene acceptors.5 Recently, Tang's group reported dithieno[3,2‐b:2ʹ,3ʹ‐d]pyrrol (DTP) as a good donor block for constructing a novel N‐functionalized core, namely 5,5,12,12‐tetrakis(4‐hexylphenyl)indacenobis‐(dithieno[3,2‐b:2′,3′‐d]pyrrol) (INP).45 Thanks to the electron‐rich N atom, INP‐based SMAs (INPIC‐4F) showed a 1.39 eV optical bandgap (E g opt) and achieved a PCE over 13% along with a low energy loss (0.54 eV, calculated from E loss = E g opt − eV OC, where V OC is open‐circuit voltage and E g opt is obtained from the edge of film absorption).
In combination with PM6 (polymer donor), Y6‐based device delivered an impressive PCE of 15.7% accompanied with a 25.3 mA cm−2 short‐circuit current (J SC) and a 0.50 eV E loss.
It is known that the driving force for exciton dissociation is determined by the energy offset (ΔE offset) between HOMO (or LUMO) energy levels of donor and acceptor.
However, PM6 is still a suitable donor to match with N7IT and N8IT (for high V oc and good morphology) because nearly zero ΔE offset can also offer enough driving force for efficient exciton dissociation in nonfullerene acceptors‐based OSCs according to recent research.49 These positive effects of N atom on SMAs can be anticipated to realize a high V OC and a large J SC in one cell.
A small dihedral angle between donor core and end groups is revealed in a‐IT, N7IT and N8IT, and the near distance makes it a possibility that S atom from thiophene end in donating core can form noncovalent interactions with O atom from IC‐Cl.
To investigate the potential of N‐functionalized SMAs involving in OSCs, we fabricated a series of conventional devices whose structure is shown as indium tin oxide (ITO)/poly(3,4‐ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate)(PEDOT:PSS)/PM6:acceptor (a‐IT, N7IT, or N8IT) /zirconium acetylacetonate (ZrAcac)/Al (Figure  2 a), where ITO and Al work as the anode and cathode, respectively, PEDOT:PSS and ZrAcac act as the hole transport layer (HTL) and cathode interfacial layer (CIL), respectively.
Considering suitable energy levels and complementary absorption range, PM6 was selected as an ideal donor polymer to blend with three SMAs.
Based on our previous device manufacturing experience, chloroform was utilized as the processing solvent which can well dissolve two component of donor and acceptor for fully mixing.
a) The structures of device and polymer donor PM6.
It is found that OSCs with N7IT as acceptor own larger charge carrier density than that of a‐IT‐based OSCs at different charge carrier lifetimes, suggesting N atom can significantly promote the charge carrier density within devices.
In general, the E loss during exciton separation and charge recombination processes consists of three sources specifying as the following equation54, 55 (1)Eloss=Egap−qVocSQ+qΔVocrad+qΔVocnonrad=ΔE1+ΔE2+ΔE3 where E gap is the lower bandgap between a donor and an acceptor; q is the elementary charge; V oc SQ is the maximum voltage by the Shockley–Queisser limit, where the EQE is assumed to be step‐wise; ΔV oc rad is the voltage loss of radiative recombination from the absorption below the bandgap; ΔV oc nonrad is the voltage loss of nonradiative recombination.
With the emergence of FREAs, the ∆E 2 is nearly negligible because the E offset (HOMO energy levels difference between donor and acceptor materials) of less than 0.1 eV can also offer enough driving force for efficient exciton dissociation.
E CT can be estimated by fitting the lower energy part of EQE spectra based on the Marcus theory (Equation (2))56, 57 (2)EQEPVE=fE4πλkTexp−(ECT+λ−E)24λkT where k is the Boltzmann constant, T is absolute temperature, λ is the reorganization energy, and f is the oscillator absorption strength, proportional to the donor/acceptor interface area.
To further clarify the potential of N7IT, we compared N7IT with other reported high‐performance acceptors such as ITC‐2Cl, IT‐4F, FOIC and Y series in E loss, ∆E 1, ∆E 2 and ∆E 3 measured by FTPS‐EQE and EL (Table 3, available data are rare due to the limitations of FTPS‐EQE test).
Adding Cl atom into the end group of ITCPTC to form ITC‐2Cl lows the E loss of cell by 0.07 eV and meanwhile suppress ∆E 3 by 0.036 eV,49 whose effects are not more obvious than the effect that substituting S atom with N atom of donor core (from a‐IT to N7IT exhibits reduction of 0.145 eV in E loss and 0.104 eV in ∆E 3).
When donor was incorporated into, the hole/electron (μ h/μ e) mobilities become 7.01 × 10−4/4.31 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 for PM6:N7IT (μ h/μ e = 1.63), and 6.92 × 10−4 /3.79 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 for PM6:N8IT (μ h/μ e = 1.83).
We guested the mechanism is N8IT phase pushing PM6 out to form large donor/acceptor phase during the crystallization process of film formation.
ConspectusThe active layer in a solution processed organic photovoltaic device comprises a light absorbing electron donor semiconductor, typically a polymer, and an electron accepting fullerene acceptor.
Although there has been huge effort targeted to optimize the absorbing, energetic, and transport properties of the donor material, fullerenes remain as the exclusive electron acceptor in all high performance devices.
Very recently, some new non-fullerene acceptors have been demonstrated to outperform fullerenes in comparative devices.
This Account describes this progress, discussing molecular design considerations and the structure–property relationships that are emerging.The motivation to replace fullerene acceptors stems from their synthetic inflexibility, leading to constraints in manipulating frontier energy levels, as well as poor absorption in the solar spectrum range, and an inherent tendency to undergo postfabrication crystallization, resulting in device instability.
New acceptors have to address these limitations, providing tunable absorption with high extinction coefficients, thus contributing to device photocurrent.
The ability to vary and optimize the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level for a specific donor polymer is also an important requirement, ensuring minimal energy loss on electron transfer and as high an internal voltage as possible.
Initially perylene diimide acceptors were evaluated as promising acceptor materials.
The generic design concept of rotationally symmetrical aromatic small molecules with extended π orbital delocalization, including polyaromatic hydrocarbons, phthalocyanines, etc., has also provided some excellent small molecule acceptors.
New calamitic acceptors have been developed, where molecular orbital hybridization of electron rich and poor segments can be judiciously employed to precisely control energy levels.
In the field of organic photovoltaics (OPV), there is a growing interest in developing new electron acceptor materials in addition to the prevalent fullerene-based acceptors such as phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) and phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM).
These fullerene acceptors were derived from the parent C60 and C70 fullerenes to improve the solubility and processability, in particular for bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells.
Nevertheless, fullerene-based acceptors have some significant limitations including (i) weak absorption in the abundant region of the incident solar spectrum, which limits their ability to harvest photocurrent, (ii) limited tunability in terms of spectral absorption, (iii) high synthetic costs, especially for the high performing C70 derivative, and (iv) morphological instability due to fullerene diffusion and aggregation in the thin film over time.
Much research has been focused on developing appropriate and efficient donor materials optimized specifically for these fullerenes and also accommodating their limitations in terms of absorption profile and electronic properties.
The development of new donor materials using this approach has undoubtedly advanced the OPV field significantly with single-junction devices now exceeding 10% power conversion efficiency (PCE).1 However, the fine-tuning of molecular and electronic properties of the electron donor to exactly fulfill the requirements dictated by the fullerenes is a rigid and suboptimal design strategy.
A more modular and dynamic approach to further enhance OPV device performance focuses on the development of new non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) to be used in conjunction with the vast number of small molecule and polymeric donor materials that have been developed over the past decade.
New NFAs should obviously retain the advantageous properties of the fullerenes, such as efficient charge transfer with a low possibility of back transfer and good blend morphology with the donor material.
They should also display greater ease of synthesis, improved solubility and processability from environmentally friendlier solvents, and increased optical absorptivity and introduce a structural flexibility that allows for favorable matching of frontier energy levels of donor and acceptor materials (Figure 1a).
Donor–acceptor band diagrams showing energetic relationships (a) and mechanisms for photocurrent generation from p-type (channel I) and n-type (channel II) excitation (b).
NFAs that are slightly weaker electron acceptors than fullerenes are likely to work well with wide band gap donors such as poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) due to the diminished LUMO–LUMO offset (ΔLUMO) affording a higher open-circuit voltage (VOC).
On the other hand, the availability of stronger electron acceptors than fullerenes is important when considering narrow band gap donors, which often perform poorly with fullerene acceptors due to an insufficient LUMO–LUMO offset.
The prospects of much stronger absorbing NFAs open up options for additional photocurrent generation through n-type excitation followed by hole transfer from the NFA to the electron donor material (channel II).2,3 The coexistence of these two mechanisms for photocurrent generation in NFA based OPV devices emphasizes the importance of spectral complementarity and judicious matching of not only the LUMO energy levels for efficient electron transfer but also the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy levels for hole transfer.
In this Account, we highlight and discuss some of the important classes of materials that have shown promise as alternative electron acceptor materials in organic solar cells.
The most widely investigated NFA molecules to date have been based on the perylene diimide (PDI) core unit, which has been shown to possess many desirable design features for OPV electron acceptors, such as high electron mobility and high electron affinity (EA; ca.
3.9 eV for the unmodified PDI, which is similar to widely used fullerene acceptors).4 In solution-processed BHJ OPVs, however, the progress has often been limited due to the strong π–π stacking tendency of PDIs to form micrometer-sized crystallites, which are too large, preventing a sufficiently large donor–acceptor interfacial area for efficient exciton splitting.
Judicious optimization of both the acceptor and the polymer donor recently resulted in an improved PCE of 5.45% for 1.1b (Table 1).6 With a better understanding of the crystallite size on the influence of photovoltaic performance, more attention was focused on designing PDI NFAs with bay substituents (positions 1, 6, 7, and 12) due to synthetic accessibility and demonstrated success in minimizing PDI aggregation.
BHJ OPV devices based on the 1.2 acceptor and the (PBDTT-F-TT) polymer donor demonstrated a PCE up to 5.90% by using an inverted cell structure with a fullerene self-assembled monolayer (C60-SAM) on ZnO.8 A closely related PDI dimer (1.3) with sulfur bridges in the bay positions had a more twisted molecular configuration, a slightly lower electron affinity, and a blue-shifted absorption profile providing better spectral complementarity with narrow band gap donor polymers.9 Consequently, a high PCE of 7.16% was achieved with the PDBT-T1 donor polymer owing to a high VOC, as well as good JSC and FF values.
Another PDI dimer with a two-carbon bridge (1.4), which has a nonplanar conformation from the repulsion between the two C–Hs on inner bay positions, demonstrated an average PCE of 5.52% with PBDTT-TT donor polymer, which was increased to 6.05% with solvent additives.10 Nonplanar PDI conformations can also be achieved by inserting an aromatic bridge between the two PDI units.
Further fine-tuning of the film-forming process by solvent additives and solvent vapor annealing also improved the PCE to 6.1%.12 Other molecular bridges were also demonstrated to be useful for suppressing the formation of micrometer-sized PDI aggregates.13 For example, a tetraphenylethylene core based PDI NFA (1.6) showing a small domain size of 20 nm when blended with polymer donor PBDTT-F-TT, demonstrated a PCE of up to 5.53%.14 The high performance of this blend was attributed to not only the inhibition of forming large acceptor crystallites, but it was also proposed that there was a formation of a 3D charge-transporting network created from its unique 3D molecular structure, with corresponding improved electron mobility.
A similar approach using tetraphenylmethane and tetraphenylsilane (1.7) as the core was slightly less efficient affording PCEs of 4.3% and 4.2%, respectively, for 1.7a and 1.7b.15 Another case that utilizes the spirobifluorene bridge, 1.8,16,17 also demonstrated an impressive VOC as large as 0.98 V when blended with the polymer donor PffBT4T-2DT, due to its electron affinity of 3.83 eV.
The electron transport ability of 1.8 is reasonably good among reported PDI-based acceptors, which achieved a high fill factor (FF) of 65% in a P3HT/1.8-based solar cell; however, only moderate PCE of 2.35% was obtained due to the low VOC of 0.61 V.16 When blended with the low band gap polymer donor PffBT4T-2DT, the absorption of PffBT4T-2DT is complementary to 1.8, resulting different regions of coverage for the solar spectrum.
This selection of polymer donor/nonfullerene acceptor pair achieved a high PCE of 6.30% without any solvent additives and interlayers.
Slip-stacked PDI dimers have been shown to exhibit an order of magnitude slower excimer formation than cofacial PDI dimer counterparts.18 For example, PDI NFA 1.9 with four phenyl groups substituted in ortho-positions (2, 5, 8, and 11) was found to have a slip-stacked packing structure.19 When blended with the PBTI3T, small crystalline acceptor grains (∼2–5 nm) resulted, with higher yields of long-lived charge separated species, resulting in a higher PCE of up to 3.67%.
Chemical structures of PDI-based and fused aromatic ring electron acceptors.
Linking two BFI units in the central tetraazaanthracene position with thiophene promotes a nonplanar 3D molecule, 1.11a, which showed an improved performance over the monomeric analogue (1.10) (and PC61BM) in blends with PSEHTT donor polymer, demonstrating a maximum PCE of 5.04% in inverted BHJ structures.20 The enhanced charge photogeneration of 1.11a was shown by time-resolved microwave conductivity (TRMC) studies, with a significantly higher transient photoconductivity maxima (Δσmax) observed.
With inspiration from the archetypal electron acceptor C60, several electron accepting motifs with rotationally symmetric polycyclic aromatic cores comprising five- and six-membered rings have been developed for use in OPV devices.
One example of this approach is the C5-symmetric corannulene (Figure 3), where the aromatic core is a fragment of C60 and therefore bears resemblance to C60 with respect to electron affinity as well as molecular curvature.23 Another example is the C3-symmetric truxenone (Figure 3), which can be viewed as a planarized keto-functionalized C60 fragment.24 This design strategy crucially relies on further structural functionalization to adjust the frontier energy levels and to create appropriately soluble materials that can be processed with electron donors to form phase separated BHJ blends with domain sizes comparable to the exciton diffusion length.
Examples of electron acceptor motifs derived from C60.
Despite the close resemblance to C60, very few corannulene derivatives have been reported in the context of organic electronics.25,26 Corannulenes 2.1a,b (Figure 4) with a phthalimide and a naphthalimide substituent, respectively, were reported.27 With electron affinities of 3.10 eV for 2.1a and 3.24 eV for 2.1b, these compounds are significantly weaker electron acceptors than, for example, PC61BM.
Compound 2.1b, with the higher EA, was found to possess significantly higher electron mobility than 2.1a and consequently performed reasonably well in a BHJ OPV device with P3HT as the donor material affording a high VOC of 0.82 V and a PCE of 1.03% (Table 2).
Electron acceptors based on rotationally symmetric aromatic cores.
Compound 2.2a outperforms PC61BM in a bilayer OPV structure with an evaporated subphthalocyanine donor material, giving a PCE of 1.0%, but this promising performance has yet to be demonstrated in a BHJ system.
While many NFAs are slightly weaker electron acceptors than PC61BM and primarily have been shown to work with wide band gap donors such as P3HT, the availability of stronger acceptors such as 2.2 is important when considering narrow band gap donors.
The electron-deficient decacyclene-based triimide 2.3 was reported and initial studies afforded a PCE of 1.6% with compound 2.3c in a BHJ solar cell with P3HT as the donor material.30 In contrast, 2.3b only afforded a PCE of 0.03% when tested under identical conditions, which highlights the important role of controlling the solubility, crystallinity, and BHJ blend morphology through alkyl-chain engineering.
Further studies on 2.3c have encouragingly indicated that this electron accepting material works reasonably well with a range of polymeric donor materials with band gaps varying from 1.8 to 2.0 eV and EAs from 3.3 to 3.7 eV.31 PCEs range from 0.75% to 1.47% and VOC values are in two cases significantly increased relative to the devices with PC61BM and PC71BM.
Compared with the conventional fullerene acceptors, all NFA devices presented in this study are limited by low fill factors and reduced JSC-values, which the authors ascribe to suboptimal phase separation.
The C2-symmetric acceptor 2.5, based on the C70 fragment rubicene, was demonstrated to have a high VOC of 1.22 V and a PCE of 3.05% in a BHJ solar cell with P3HT as the donor material.32
Bilayer devices using either 2.6 or 2.7 as the acceptor material with an α-sexithiophene donor afforded high PCEs of 4.69% and 6.02%, respectively.33 Moreover, efficiencies as high as 8.40% were achieved with a three-layer device architecture employing both 2.6 and 2.7 due to a high VOC of 0.96 V, a JSC of 14.55 mA/cm2, and a FF of 61%.
Interestingly, 2.7 was also used as a donor material in conjunction with chlorinated electron acceptor 2.8.34 A planar heterojunction was again utilized, and with interlayer optimization, a PCE of 6.4% was achieved owing to a VOC of 1.03 V, a JSC of 9.0 mA/cm2, and a FF of 71%.
Compared with the corresponding device with C60 as the electron acceptor, an increased current with 2.8 was attributed to strong and complementary absorption profiles, while the greatly improved fill factor was explained by decreased recombination of either charge-transfer states or trapped charges.
More recently, an improved PCE of 6.9% was reported for this system.35 In a similar fashion, 2.9 was used as the electron acceptor with 2.6 as the donor to afford a bilayer OPV device with a PCE of 4.0%.36 More recently, SubPc derivatives 2.10a,b were employed in BHJ solar cells with three different donor polymers, MEH-PPV, P3HT, and PTB7.37 Compounds 2.10a,b were found to have 0.2 eV lower EA than PCBM.
Despite the lower electron affinity, giving rise to a small energy offset on the order of 0.2 eV with donor polymer PTB7, a PCE of 3.5% was achieved with 2.10b.
Electron acceptors based on rotationally symmetric subphthalocyanines.
Calamitic shaped small molecules, with discrete separation of electron rich and poor sections, have received attention recently as a promising class of NFAs, drawing on the symmetric monomer design template used in donor polymer synthesis.
This includes three different structural units: a central donor unit (D1) that is flanked by a second donor or acceptor (D2/A1) unit and a terminal acceptor unit (A2), often attached via a vinyl linkage.
Notable exceptions to this include 3.5 and 3.6 (Figure 7), which have alkylated diketopyrrolopyrrole and naphthalimide acceptors on the periphery, although it may be argued that these groups are large enough to not suffer from steric hindrance from their alkyl groups.
Calamitic-type electron acceptors with power conversion efficiencies >3%.
Typical donor units such as thiophene are often used here, but the molecules 3.1 and 3.7 (Figure 7) instead use the electron withdrawing benzothiadiazole unit in this position, which helps to extend the LUMO to give this molecule a large and sterically exposed electron accepting component on the periphery.
First, a large extinction coefficient in the acceptor is necessary to improve light absorption relative to fullerene-based devices.
The breadth of absorption is also important as a complementary absorption profile with the donor material is sought.
This extends the conjugation of the aromatic system, reducing the bandgap significantly to give an absorption profile that is more complementary to that of P3HT, the donor polymer employed.
These factors result in an increased JSC from 7.95 to 14.1 mA/cm2 and an increase in PCE from 4.1% to 6.4% with P3HT as the donor.45
Second, the energy levels of the material must be optimized relative to the donor, with the EA of the acceptor designed to be as low as possible to maximize VOC while maintaining efficient electron transfer.
Given the high extinction coefficients of these acceptors as discussed, the offset between HOMO levels is equally important to optimize for these systems to ensure efficient hole transfer.
Many calamitic NFAs are able to yield high VOC values (0.8–1.2 V) through optimization of these energy levels, giving them a significant advantage over fullerene acceptors.
Third, the acceptor should ideally be designed to work with high performance polymers to achieve high efficiencies.
Devices made with high mobility, low bandgap polymers such as the PTB7 derivatives are expected to result in higher efficiencies than those made with wide bandgap polymers such as P3HT, making it difficult to assess the relative potential of new acceptor materials.
Lastly, the aggregating nature of the acceptor is important in determining the morphology of the active layer.
It is clear that the research into non-fullerene acceptors for organic photovoltaics have progressed rapidly over recent years.
Evaporated planar heterojunction devices have reached power conversion efficiencies of 8.4%,33 while bulk heterojunction devices fabricated by solution processing have afforded PCEs of 6.8%.46 The anticipated advantages of NFAs in terms of enhanced optical absorptivity and ease of frontier energy level engineering relative to fullerene acceptors have been clearly demonstrated in numerous studies.
NFAs with lower electron affinities than the archetypical fullerenes have successfully been used in conjunction with wide bandgap donors to enhance the open-circuit voltage.
Similarly, NFAs with higher electron affinities are promising candidates in heterojunctions with narrow bandgap donors that are otherwise limited in performance by a small LUMO–LUMO offset.
A novel random copolymer based on donor–acceptor type polymers containing benzodithiophene and dithienosilole as donors and benzothiazole and diketopyrrolopyrrole as acceptors was designed and synthesized by Stille copolymerization, and their optical, electrochemical, charge transport, and photovoltaic properties were investigated.
These results indicate that constructing random copolymer with multiple donor and acceptor monomers and choosing proper mixed solvents to change the characteristics of the film is a very promising way for manufacturing organic solar cells with large current density and high power conversion efficiency.
A mixed bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure, which consists of a conjugated polymer as an electron donor and a fullerene derivative as an electron acceptor, produces high power conversion efficiency (PCE) in polymer solar cells (PSCs) [1].
Alternating electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) building blocks to construct D–A type polymers is an effective strategy for designing high efficient photovoltaic materials for PSCs [2,3,4].
Current D–A copolymer design strategies include: (1) synthesizing novel donor [7] and acceptor units [8]; (2) introducing π-spacers to construct D-π-A polymers [9]; (3) optimizing the alkyl side chains to balance the crystallinity and solubility [10]; and (4) introducing substituents, for example fluorine atoms, to tune the energy levels [11].
Thus far, there are plenty of examples of significant improvement being achieved by randomly copolymerizing one donor and one acceptor with a third monomer [13,14,15,16].
Besides, mixed solvents can also be effectively used to tune the miscibility of the donor and acceptor components, the domain size and the morphology of active layer, which play an important role in optimizing the photovoltaic performances for PSCs [20,21,22].
We present a new fully conjugated random copolymer, PSTDPP (see Scheme 1), containing two donor units, siloledithieno (SDT) [23] and benzodithiophene (BDT) [24], and two acceptors, benzothiadiazole (BT) [25] and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) [26].
The incorporation of siloledithieno and benzodithiophene donor units and strong electron-drawing benzothiadiazole and diketopyrrolopyrrole units into the polymer backbones was expected to enhance hole transport mobility of the polymers.
PSCs were fabricated with a conventional sandwich structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/polymer:PC71BM/Ca/Al, where the active layer was composed of PSTDPP as the donor and PC71BM as the acceptor.
In summary, a new random copolymer containing two donors (SDT and BDT) and two acceptors (BT and DPP), named as PSTDPP, has been synthesized and fully characterized.
These results indicate that constructing random copolymer with multiple donor and acceptor monomers could provide a new general method for designing photovoltaic polymers with optimized optical and electrochemical properties.
[  17 ,  18 ,  19 ,  20 ,  21  ] From a molecular design standpoint, the development of donor–acceptor (D–A)‐type OSCs with conjugated backbone has greatly advanced the OFET technology[  22  ] resulting in several high‐performing p‐type (hole‐transporting) and n‐type (electron‐transporting) OSC families[  7 ,  23 ,  24 ,  25  ]
The strong donor–acceptor character creates a highly hybridized frontier molecular orbital system leading to low‐lying LUMO and high‐lying HOMO orbitals.
DIO promotes the formation of a well-mixed donor-acceptor vertical phase morphology with a large population of small p-DTS(FBTTh2)2 nanocrystals arranged in an elongated domain network of the film, thereby enhancing the device performance.
During solution casting of the OPV layer, electron donor (ED) and acceptor (EA) molecules undergo self-assembly leading to a bicontinuous, interpenetrating network of ED and EA phases, which provide pathways for the transport of electrons and holes.
Recent advances in structural study of the polymer/fullerene system have identified the presence of mixed phases containing fullerene molecules dispersed in the donor phase3536.
While pure donor and acceptor phases reduce charge recombination by pushing holes away from electrons and, thus, enhancing device performances, the role of a third phase remains unclear3536.
During spin coating, the DIO additive facilitates the formation of well-ordered structure, with donor and acceptor materials forming nano-scale domains, favorable for efficient charge transport.
According to X-ray diffraction data, the DIO additive morphology exhibits a high density of small donor nanocrystallites of ~24 nm, whereas thermal annealing generates smaller amount of much larger crystallites (~134 nm).
In this regard, dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) made of mesoscopic metal oxides (TiO2, ZnO, SnO2, and Nb2O5) and organic dyes can meet the standards as a suitable alternative if high efficiency and stability can be realized.2,3 Metal oxide acts as an electron acceptor and in most cases, it also acts as an electron transporter by adsorbing the dyes.4,5 Among various metal oxides, mesoscopic titanium dioxide (TiO2) is the most widely studied so far due to its high chemical stability, low cost, and non-toxicity.5−8 In addition, it also has a high specific surface area to adsorb dyes and easy band gap control through surface modification.
In a previous study, we developed a series of new organic D−π–A type and D−π–A−π′–A′ type photosensitizers based on pyrazine derivatives (TPP: benzopyrazine; TPPS: pyrido[3,4-b]pyrazine; TPPF: trifluoromethylbenzopyrazine) as acceptors (A), triphenylamine groups as donors(D), and phenyl groups as linkers (π).23 The thiophene-cyanoacryl group was applied as the auxiliary heterocyclic linker-acceptor (π′–A′).
In general, organic photosensitizers have a D−π–A structure that includes an electron donor (D), a π-conjugated bridge (π), and an electron acceptor (A), and they also have one or two anchoring groups to be adsorbed onto the TiO2 surface.
In these organic photosensitizers, the movements of electrons are due to intramolecular charge transfer (ICT).24−26 Organic dyes are usually composed of an electron donor (D), π-conjugated bridges (π), and an electron acceptor (A).
The photoabsorption properties of a D−π–A organic dye are associated with the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) excitation from the donor to the acceptor moiety of the dye, resulting in efficient electron transfer through the acceptor moiety from the excited dye into the TiO2 conduction band.
This increase in the uncovered TiO2 areas improves the possibility of the redox species accessing the TiO2 surface, allowing electron recombination with the I3– acceptor species at the TiO2 surface.
A total of two high-performing donor conjugated polymers were used, namely poly({4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl}{3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl}) (PTB7) and poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2–6-diyl)] (PBDTT-FTTE, aka PTB7-Th).
On the contrary, the PCE values of the HTL-free OPVs based on these two high-performing conjugated polymer donors did not match those of the reference device.
Applying an asymmetric strategy to construct non-fullerene small-molecule acceptors (NFSMAs) in organic solar cells (OSCs) plays a vital role in the development of organic photovoltaic materials.
From a structural point of view, besides the possible changes in the conformation effect on molecular packing, asymmetric acceptors can also achieve a balance between the solubility and the crystallinity.
Finally, we put forward our views and a concise outlook on the asymmetric strategy.An asymmetric strategy to construct non-fullerene small-molecule acceptors in organic solar cells exhibits excellent potential and plays a vital role in the development of organic photovoltaic materials.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) have been developed rapidly over the past few years benefiting from chemical structural diversity, mechanical flexibility, roll-to-roll large area printing, etc.1−14 The classical active layers of single-junction OSCs usually consist of a p-type conjugated polymer as a donor and an n-type material (fullerene derivative or non-fullerene small molecule) as an acceptor.15 In the last two decades, fullerene derivatives have occupied a predominant position in electron acceptor materials due to their suitable electron affinity and isotropic electron transporting properties.16−21 However, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of the most perfect fullerene-based OSCs are limited to only ∼11%.22,23 The demand for replacing fullerene in OSCs has led to the exploitation of non-fullerene small-molecule acceptors (NFSMAs).
With the emergence of A-D-A-type acceptors such as ITIC and A-DA′D-A-type acceptors such as BZIC (D: electron donor unit; A: electron acceptor unit),25−34 the PCEs of the contemporary NFSMA-based OSCs can reach over 18% (certified).35
Generally, the complementary absorption profiles, matched energy levels, and suitable phase separation morphologies of the donor and the acceptor in the active layer are the necessary factors to achieve high PCEs.
In 2015, Zhan’s group synthesized the classic A-D-A-type small-molecular acceptor ITIC with a PCE of 6.8% (blended with PTB7-TH).
Since then, based on ITIC, significant efforts have been devoted to developing NFSMAs for OSC applications.43−46 In addition, Tang’s group drew an electron-donating unit 5,5,12,12-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-indacenobis(dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d])pyrrol (INP) into a conjugated backbone and synthesized an A-D-A-type acceptor INPIC-4F.47 An improved electron mobility (μe) and a relatively low energy loss (Eloss) (0.54 eV) enabled an eminent PCE up to 13.13% in INPIC-4F-based OSCs.
With the number of fused rings increasing, the absorption of the acceptor can be easily extended to the near-infrared that could substantially improve photocurrent generation, finally affecting the Jsc and the PCE of the OSCs (summarized in Table 1 and Figure 3).
(a) Energy levels and short-circuit current density of segmental acceptor molecules.
Thus, three diverse membered fused ring acceptors TPT-2F, TPTT-2Fm and TPTTT-2F were designed by Sun’s group.51 As shown in Figure 3, the extended IDT backbone realized broader absorption and upshifted energy levels.
exploited three types fused ring acceptors Y26, Y22, and Y18, which obtained five-, six-, and seven-membered conjugated fused rings, respectively.49,58,59 As a result, the efficiency of the six-membered asymmetric acceptor Y22 is significantly higher than that of the five-membered symmetric acceptor Y26, and this improvement comes from the asymmetric expansion.
However, their efficiencies were lower than that of devices based on the seven-membered acceptor Y18.
All these examples showed that the number of fused rings had an important influence on the device performance during the asymmetric modification, and seven-membered acceptors exhibited the best intramolecular charge-transfer ability which reflects the Jsc.
However, when the acceptors BP-4F, ABP4T-4F, and BP5T-4F were discussed, the conclusion is out of the above-mentioned expectation;60,61 the seven-membered acceptor ABP4T-4F obtains a poor PCE with the lowest Jsc among three asymmetric acceptors.
Besides the different number of fused rings, it can be clearly seen that these acceptors have different shapes.
These differences will also significantly affect the performance of the acceptors.
The S-shaped conformation BP-4F, C-shaped conformation BP4T-4F, Z-shaped conformation BP5T-4F and W-shaped conformation ABP4T-4F were synthesized to conclude that the C-type conformation BP4T-4F shows the best performance among A-DA′D-A-type acceptors (Figures 3b and 4).
In A-DA′D-A-type acceptors, due to the synergistic effect of the miscibility (with polymer donor) and C-shaped conformation, the PM6:BDTP-4F blend had stronger π–π stacking and a larger crystal coherence length.
In addition, Tang’s group also synthesized three asymmetric A-D-A-type NFSMAs which contained the C-shaped acceptor IPTT-2F as well as S-shaped acceptors IPT-2F and IPTTT-2F.64 By GIWAXS measurements, it could be clearly seen that face-on π–π stacking of the S-shaped IPT-2F- and IPTTT-2F-based blends are obviously enhanced.
Previous work has shown that S-shaped asymmetric NFSMAs, which consisted of seven-membered fused ring backbone, exhibited an impressive potential for A-D-A-type acceptors materials.
And for the A-DA′D-A-type acceptors, the C-shaped NFSMAs with seven-membered fused ring backbone showed the best PCE.
Compared with the modification of the length and shape of the molecular backbone, controlling the number of heteroatoms can subtly adjust the acceptor to obtain the optimal PCE while maintaining the majority of the advantages of the parent acceptor.
For example, incorporating selenophene into the central conjugated backbone will enhance the intramolecular charge-transfer effect and improve charge mobility, as well as extend absorption.65 The asymmetric strategy provides a solution for the synthesis of high-efficiency selenophene-based acceptors.
The great majority of non-fullerene acceptors have symmetric side chains and terminal groups, strongly affecting the molecular crystallinity, packing behavior, and thus photovoltaic performance.67 From the perspective of molecular design, it is simple and effective to modify the side chain or terminal group to optimize the device performance without changing the overall structure.
Huang’s group exploited two novel asymmetric side-chain-based NFSMAs, namely, EH-HD-4F and Bu-OD-4F.71 Compared with the reference acceptor BO-4F (Figure 6), both EH-HD-4F and Bu-OD-4F showed red-shifted absorption.
As shown in Figure 8, based on the indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT) central backbone, Bo’s group designed two types of asymmetric acceptors a-IT-2F and a-IT-2OM.72 Compared to ITIC, a-IT-2OM realized an elevated LUMO energy level to −3.92 eV.
In order to investigate the fluorination density on IDTT-based acceptors, Marks and co-workers synthesized a series of symmetric acceptors ITIC-0F, ITIC-4F, and ITIC-6F as well as asymmetric ones ITIC-2F and ITIC-3F.73 Along with the number of fluorine atoms increased, these NFSMAs performed contractive Egopt’s but almost constant LUMO energy levels, which exhibited an improved Jsc and an excellent Voc.
Except for ITIC-6F, the asymmetric acceptors ITIC-2F- and ITIC-3F achieved a more synergistic adjustment between the Jsc and the Voc when blending with donors in OSCs.
Generally, because of the larger dipole moments, chlorine substitution was regarded as an effective strategy to lower the energy levels and broaden the absorption spectra.74−76 He and co-workers synthesized two acceptors, namely, ITIC-2Cl-β and α-ITIC-2Cl (Figure 8).77 Actually, ITIC-2Cl-β possessed a linear packing structure, but α-ITIC-2Cl formed a 3D interpenetrating network with shorter π–π distances and better molecular planarity.
On the basis of the backbone of Y6, two asymmetric acceptors BTP-S1 and BTP-S2 were acquired.78 Relative to BTP-S1, BTP-S2 displayed a bit narrower Egopt and higher absorption coefficient.
By replacing the fluorine atoms with chlorine atoms on terminal groups, three asymmetric acceptors, SY1, SY2, and SY3, were synthesized.80 The SY1 with two fluorine atoms and one chlorine atom presented the highest LUMO energy level and the best molecular packing.
He and co-workers reported an acceptor named BTIC-2Cl-γCF3.81 After the asymmetric strategy, it maintained both advantages of high Voc from the IC-2Cl end group and conducive stacking from a CF3 end group.
The single-crystal diffraction pattern showed that there were various of intermolecular interactions in the solid state of the acceptors (as shown in Figure 9).
(a) The chemical structures and (b) energy level of the above-mentioned polymer donors.
As shown in this short outlook, asymmetric NFSMAs have played a vital role in the development of OSCs and exhibited no less potency than symmetrical acceptors in recent years.
Benefiting from the development of A-DA′D-A-type NFSMAs, the efficiency of asymmetric acceptors based OSCs have exceeded 18%.
In the previous research of PDI-based quasi-polymers, it turns out to be a feasible and superior strategy to prevent excessive aggregation.82 Combining good repeatability of the small-molecule acceptor and high stability of the polymer acceptor, quasi-polymers will have a higher commercialization potential and take its place in asymmetric NFSMAs.
In the previous research of PDI-based quasi-polymers, it turns out to be a feasible and superior strategy to prevent excessive aggregation.82 Combining good repeatability of the small-molecule acceptor and high stability of the polymer acceptor, quasi-polymers will have a higher commercialization potential and take its place in asymmetric NFSMAs.
The molecular structure and efficiencies of symmetrical acceptors both have been increasing rapidly in recent years.
Compared with the onerous design and synthesis of novel non-fullerene acceptor systems, asymmetric modification to the structure of known acceptors appears to be a roundabout approach to get higher device performances for OSCs.
 By blending a chiral acceptor and a sensitizer into a nematic liquid crystal, a chiral nematic liquid crystal showing amplified upconverted circularly polarized luminescence could be obtained.In this work, we demonstrate a room-temperature chiral liquid crystal which shows remarkable photon upconverted circularly polarized luminescence (UC-CPL).
Here, by dispersing a chiral emitter and a triplet donor into a room-temperature nematic liquid crystal, highly efficient triplet–triplet annihilation-based photon upconversion (TTA-UC) and UC-CPL were observed in the induced chiral nematic liquid crystal (N*LC).
N*LC could be obtained by doping chiral acceptor R(S)1 into the nematic liquid crystal, which could emit circularly polarized light by excitation with a 360 nm light.
It involved the TTA process.44 The threshold excitation intensity (Ith) was 254 mW cm–2, where TTA became the main deactivation channel for the acceptor triplet, and consequently the UC quantum yield shows saturation.45 A saturation quantum yield of about 13% was obtained for S1/PtOEP in SLC1717 (10 wt%) by using Rhodamine B in SLC1717 as a standard and with the theoretical maximum of 100% (Fig.
The ΦTTET could be calculated by evaluating the phosphorescence decay before and after adding the acceptor S1.46 Although the sample with a low mixing weight ratio (5 wt%) showed the highest ΦTTET (90%), UC emission was not the best while even a higher Ith (517 mW cm–2) was obtained (see the ESI, Fig.
First, the triplet diffusion coefficient Dsol could be calculated according to the Stokes–Einstein relationship ([S1] = 1 mM; [PtOEP] = 0.01 mM),471where kb is the Boltzmann constant, T is the temperature (293 K), η is the viscosity of toluene at 293 K, and R is the molecular radius of the acceptor (8.5 Å).
The triplet diffusion length Lsol could be calculated using the following expression:482where τT,sol is the lifetime of an acceptor excited triplet, namely twice the value of the lifetime of the upconversion (568 μs).
Considering that the annihilation distance for the acceptor should be a constant value whether in solution or liquid crystal, the triplet diffusion coefficient and diffusion length could be calculated by5
As expected, DLC > Dsol, LLC > Lsol, that is to say, the capability of triplet diffusion in a liquid crystal is stronger, correspondingly the triplet diffusion length of the acceptor in the liquid crystal is longer than in the solution state.
It is expected that the capability of the triplet acceptor diffusion in the liquid crystal is stronger than in the solution state, correspondingly the triplet diffusion length of the acceptor in the liquid crystal is longer than in the solution state.
Similarly, we have also checked the influence of different weight ratios of the acceptor in a liquid crystal on the UC-CPL.
(a) The tendency of UC-CPL dissymmetry factor glum with different weight ratios of acceptor in the liquid crystal (PtOEP/S1 = 1 mol%, λex = 532 nm).
The orientation of chiral acceptor molecules in the N*LC enables highly efficient triplet energy transfer and migration which might facilitate the TTA-UC.
In addition, the well-ordered chiral acceptor–acceptor arrangements would facilitate the chiral emission and upconverted chiral emission in this kind of liquid crystal phase.
First, by adding the chiral acceptor molecule R(S)1 and the sensitizer PtOEP into the nematic liquid crystal, highly efficient TTA-UC could be observed in the N*LC.
From Mott–Schottky analysis a donor concentration of 2.3 × 1020 cm−3 and a flat band potential of 1.00 V vs. SHE were found.
Due to its high absorption in the visible range and air stability this polymer was successfully used as a donor material in organic solar cells reaching nearly 7% efficiency [8,9].
Since the polymer was developed to serve as a donor in organic photovoltaic devices, the reversibility of the electrochemical oxidation process suggests a possible hole transporting property of this material.
Using the Mott–Schottky formulation:(1)C2A−2=2(E−Efb−kT/e)eεε0NDthe donor density and the flat band potential were calculated.
For the p-type conduction region above 0.75 V vs. SHE, a donor concentration of 2.3 × 1020 cm−3 was found.
Solution-processable organic solar cells (OSCs) have been widely studied because of their easy fabrication process, cost-effectiveness, light weight, flexibility, and large area as well as continuous improvement in their performance by the use of new materials and device architectures.1,2 These cells based on a bulk heterojunction concept have been fabricated with five different components such as indium tin oxide as an anode electrode, hole transport layer (HTL), active layer (donor/acceptor), electron transport layer, and low work function (WF) metals used as a cathode electrode.
Two most important donor polymers PTB7 and PCDTBT blended with PC71BM were used as the active layer for device fabrication.
In order to further examine the effectiveness of CuBr as a solution-processable HTL on device performance, another well-studied donor polymer PCDTBT was selected for our further study.
The importance of CuBr as a common hole transport material was examined by device fabrication of OSCs based on two well-reported donor materials PTB7 and PCDTBT.
The polymers poly[N-9″-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole) (PCDTBT) and poly[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiaphene-2,6-diyl][3-fluro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)cabonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenyldiyl]] (PTB7) and acceptor phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) were purchased from Ossila Limited, United Kingdom.
Donor polymer PCDTBT and acceptor PC71BM were used in a 1.0:4.0 w/w ratio and dissolved in mixture solvents of CB and DCB (1.0/3.0 v/v).
Another donor–acceptor combination PTB7/PC71BM was used (ratio 1.0:1.5 w/w) and dissolved in a solution of DIO in CB (ratio 3.0:97.0 v/v).
In conventional OPV devices, donor and acceptor organic materials are blended and act as light absorbers and charge carriers simultaneously.
The subsequent bromination of the two free meso positions of the core affords a building block for further asymmetric functionalization with donor and acceptor moieties to produce a push-pull system.
The different reactivity of the donor and acceptor pendant requires their stepwise introduction, thus lowering the yields and making the synthetic procedure rather ineffective (Yella et al., 2011; Mathew et al., 2014).
After mono-bromination of the core in β-pyrrolic position and complexation with ZnII (Di Carlo et al., 2015), a microwave-assisted Sonogashira coupling allows the direct introduction of the ethynyl pendant carrying the carboxylic or the cyanoacrylic acceptor and anchoring group with a 2-fold yield with respect to the thermal reaction (Di Carlo et al., 2013).
Focusing on the molecular engineering of porphyrins, their spectral response can be tuned by the introduction of suitable donor and acceptor moieties in the core, which affect the energy of the HOMO and LUMO levels, respectively, and therefore the electronic properties, the absorption spectrum and the light harvesting properties (Walsh et al., 2006; Mussini et al., 2012).
For a series of trans-A2BC push–pull ZnII porphyrins (Figure 3), a sizable destabilization of the HOMO energy level occurs by substitution of the weak electron-donor methoxy group with the stronger dimethylamino group (EHOMO = −5.19 eV for 1, −5.00 eV for 2 and −5.06 eV for 3), together with a lowering in energy of the LUMO level by introduction of four fluorine atoms in the acceptor part of the molecule (ELUMO = −3.29 eV for 1, −3.21 eV for 2 and −3.32 eV for 3) (Orbelli Biroli et al., 2011; Mussini et al., 2012).
Endowing the porphyrin with donor/acceptor moieties can lead to different effects also according to the structural architecture of the core, as pointed out by an investigation on trans-A2BC push-pull ZnII porphyrins and on the analogs A4 β-pyrrolic structures (Figure 4) (Di Carlo et al., 2013).
In particular, a comparison of the HOMO-LUMO gaps of di-substituted complexes 5-2 and 8-10 with the same donor and acceptor substituents shows a more efficient transmission of the push-pull electronic effect between donor and acceptor groups in 5,15 meso positions of the macrocycle than in 2,12 β-pyrrolic positions, in accordance with an investigation of the second order NLO properties of these kind of chromophores (Orbelli Biroli et al., 2017).
However, in accordance to the DFT investigation, the introduction of a cyanoacrylic acceptor unit in 7 instead of a carboxylic one lowers both the oxidation and the reduction potentials, leading to lowest HOMO-LUMO gap in the mono-substituted series.
The elongation of π-conjugated acceptor systems on porphyrin molecules plays an important role in improving the photon collection ability of the dye, both in meso and β-substituents, giving rise to a better light harvesting over the whole visible spectrum and resulting in a panchromatic effect on the IPCE spectra and in an enhanced photocurrent, thus increasing DSSC performances (Di Carlo et al., 2014b; Arrechea et al., 2016).
The introduction of the proquinoidal benzothiadiazole (BTD) unit into the acceptor pendant of the dye promoted a splitting of the B band, resulting in a shoulder at 440 nm added to the maximum at 454 nm, with a significant broadening of the electronic absorption between the B and the Q bands (450–550 nm) and a bathochromic shift with increased intensity for the Q band at lowest-energy.
Besides BTD, other auxiliary acceptor units based on 2,3-diphenylquinoxaline (DPQ), benzotriazole and triazolopyridine moieties have been recently investigated by bridging the core with carboxylic anchoring groups in trans-A2BC ZnII porphyrins (Lu et al., 2016; Cheng et al., 2017).
Moreover, as for the meso-substituted analogs (Lu et al., 2016; Cheng et al., 2017), a shoulder of the B band appears (at 464 nm for 18 and at 471 nm for 19), more bathochromically shifted for 19, in accordance to the more electron-acceptor nature of BTD with respect to DPQ.
DFT calculations have shown that the HOMOs of all three 17-19 are mainly on the porphyrin core and have almost the same energy, while a stepwise stabilization of the LUMOs occurs on going from 17 to 19, as expected for the increased electron-withdrawing properties of the additional acceptor unit and in agreement with the anodic shift of the first oxidation peak (Table S1).
Hence the introduction of supplementary electron-withdrawing moiety in the acceptor unit is a valid strategy to extend light harvesting ability of both meso and β-substituted porphyrins, with a more pronounced effect in combination with BTD-based acceptors.
In fact, almost all the new generation porphyrin dyes carry this latter moiety as an ancillary acceptor between the porphyrin core and the anchoring group (Pan et al., 2018).
Since the first example of a porphyrin dye equipped with a push-pull system along the 5,15-meso positions in which the donor and the acceptor units are introduced in a trans-A2BC architecture (Lee et al., 2009), great efforts have been devoted on judiciously designing porphyrin sensitizers with such a kind of substitution pattern.
This molecular architecture provides a significant charge transfer character from the donor to the acceptor through the porphyrin π-system guaranteeing an increased power conversion efficiency compared with analog dyes missing the donor substituents.
The introduction in the push-pull framework of strong electron-donating substituents, such as diaryl-amine donors, not only positively affects the electron injection process, but it further improves the light harvesting ability of the sensitized photoanode by broadening and extending up to the NIR region the absorption bands of the porphyrin dye (Lee et al., 2009).
Therefore, a large number of donors with increasing electron-donating strength have been designed and investigated to simultaneously enhance the conversion efficiencies and the photon absorption of the dyes by linking at the meso-positions of the core.
However, it is mandatory to keep in mind that too strong donors seriously destabilize the HOMO levels making the regeneration process of the dye by the electrolyte very hard to take place with a negative impact on the PCE (Figure 1).
Besides aryl-amino donors, which have been extensively investigated (Figure 11A) (Lee et al., 2009; Hsieh et al., 2010; Chang et al., 2011; Pan et al., 2017), other electron-donating moieties have been surveyed.
Fluorene-modified porphyrins have been reported to outperform other porphyrin dyes endowed with polyaromatic or heterocyclic donors, due to the more red-shifted absorption bands promoting stronger and broader photovoltaic responses in the range 350–750 nm (Figure 11B) (Wu et al., 2012).
Various electron-donor moieties used for trans-A2BC push-pull ZnII porphyrins.
Carbazole (Figure 11C) (Wang et al., 2013, 2014) and phenothiazine (Figure 11D) (Xie et al., 2015) donor moieties have also been investigated as promising donors for developing efficient porphyrin sensitizers.
The introduction of an ethynyl bridge between the donor and the porphyrin core improved light absorption and expanded π-conjugated framework.
The introduction of an ullazine donor motif promoted significant absorptions in both the visible and NIR region (up to 800 nm) of the solar spectrum thus boosting the light harvesting ability and achieving a viable approach for designing panchromatic dyes (Figure 11E) (Mathew et al., 2016).
Some cyclic aromatic donors have been also investigated, such as pyrene (Wang et al., 2011) and N-annulated perylene (Luo et al., 2014) (Figures 11F–G), which show a remarkable panchromatic effect when linked to the porphyrin core by an ethynyl π-bridge, thus enhancing solar light harvesting in the range 400–800 nm and up to the NIR and producing IPCE values higher than 80% and superior PCEs, up to 10.5%.
While several electron-donors have been exploited for the optimization of sunlight harvesting in trans-A2BC ZnII push-pull porphyrins, a similar systematic investigation on A4 β-pyrrolic structures is still lacking, mostly because of some issues related to their preparation.
As discussed before, it was evidenced that the porphyrinic ring is a less effective linker between the donor and acceptor substituents along pyrrolic positions.
However, the introduction of the dimethylaniline donor in β-position gives broad and intense IPCE spectra in the range 350–650 nm, outperforming the PCEs of the corresponding meso-porphyrins.
The pyrrolic substitution architecture enables to fill the valley around 500 nm typical of the meso series and the additional donor promotes red shifting of the Q bands compared with the β-substituted porphyrins bearing only the acceptor.
Following a similar approach, attractive A4 2,12 β-pyrrolic disubstituted ZnII porphyrins with a ferrocenyl moiety as a strong donor group and C60-fullerene or carbon spheres as acceptor units linked to the porphyrin core through an ethynyl bridge have been prepared (Possanza et al., 2018).
Indeed, the conjugation of triphenylamine units on a porphyrin ring was previously reported to produce broadened photon absorption both in the visible and NIR regions in porphyrin dyes (Huang et al., 2012), so the introduction of these moieties was coupled with the simultaneous introduction of a BTD unit in the acceptor part of the molecule (compound 32), to achieve a panchromatic response.
Typically conjugated ethynyl and ethenyl moieties are considered the most efficient linking bridges between the porphyrin core and the acceptor unit, while ethynyl and amine bridges are commonly preferred for the connection of donor moieties.
The introduction of alkyl chains on donor, acceptors or directly on the porphyrin ring was firstly considered to address these drawbacks (Orbelli Biroli et al., 2015; Magnano et al., 2016; Song et al., 2018).
For example, linking an electron donor group in meso position of the ring and an electron acceptor in β-pyrrolic position, both through an ethynyl spacer (compound 33), generates an additional extended band at between the Soret and the Q-bands (500–600 nm) referred to as S0 → S3 excitation.
β-multi-substituted free base porphyrins carrying electron-donor methoxy groups and various electron-withdrawing groups (Br, CF3, and C6F4) at the antipodal β-positions have also been explored (34-36, Figure 14B) (Chen et al., 2013).
The distorted saddle configuration of these structures, coupled with the different electron-acceptor ability of the substituents, tunes the HOMO-LUMO energy gap, which decreases in the order 34>36>35 with the same trend for electrochemical and calculated data.
The β-functionalized imidazole-fused porphyrin dyes 37-39 (Figure 14C) display different HOMO-LUMO gaps and light harvesting properties which depend on the π-bridges and the acceptor groups on the fused imidazole-porphyrin donor (Bodedla et al., 2018).
The trend of the first oxidation potentials (37<38<39, Table S1) is related to the strength of the interaction between the imidazole-fused porphyrin core and the acceptor cyanoacrylic or carboxylic anchoring group.
The fused quinoxaline moiety in 40 has an electron-acceptor character and the addition of a triarylamino electron donor at the opposite β,β'-edge through a fused imidazole moiety (41) allows a broadening and a red-shift of the Soret and Q bands with enhanced light harvesting.
In these structures two benzene units are fused at the opposite β,β'-positions of the core, and carry at one end an electron donor methoxyphenyl group and at the other a variety of electron acceptor substituents.
The donor group can be linked to the benzene ring by a phenyl bridge (42-45) (Figure 15A) (Jinadasa et al., 2015) or by a more conjugated ethynylphenyl spacer (46-48) (Figure 15B) (Jinadasa et al., 2017).
Moreover, in accordance to the strong electron acceptor properties of the substituents, these effects are more pronounced for compounds 42 and 45.
DFT calculation have shown that the electron density of the HOMO spans over the porphyrin core and the two fused benzene rings, with only a minimal involvement of the methoxyphenyl donor group, due to the hampered rotation of the benzene rings around the C-C single bond.
On the other hand, the LUMO orbital is mainly on the porphyrin core and appears affected by the introduction of strong electron acceptor moieties.
The insertion of an ethynyl spacer between the porphyrin core and the phenyl moiety carrying the donor group assures a better conjugation of the core with the electron donor, thus enhancing the push-pull effect, as in 46-48.
All these effects are produced by the simple addition of the electron donor, highlighting therefore its unique role.
The replacement of the two carboxymethyl acceptors with a cyclic imide in 48 enhances further increases the red shift of the Soret and the Q bands, and also the intensity of the Q band at 584 nm.
By introduction of the dimethylamino group in 47 the HOMO orbital shifts mostly on the donor moiety, while the LUMO remains on the porphyrin core, without any involvement of the carboxymethyl groups.
On the contrary, in the presence of the cyclic imide (48), the electron density of the LUMO moves toward the acceptor, with a decrease of the electrochemical HOMO-LUMO energy gap (1.94 vs. 2.41 eV for 46 and 2.01 eV for 47, Table S1) and the generation of the most performing push-pull system.
49 shows a broad and red shifted B band at 488 nm, which is further red shifted to 507 nm by substitution of the carboxymethyl acceptor units with cyclic imides.
DFT calculations have evidenced for both 49 and 50 a HOMO located on the porphyrin core and on the four benzene units, while the LUMO spans the core, the two benzene moieties carrying the electron acceptor group and for 50 the cyclic imides, leaving untouched the other two benzenes with the methoxyphenyl groups.
Therefore, the presence of two electron donor and two electron acceptor moieties in β-pyrrolic position of ZnII tetrabenzoporphyrins promotes huge and tunable effects on their electronic properties, which make these systems promising for application in DSSCs.
The meso-architecture, which relies on a push-pull system arranged on 5,15 meso positions of a porphyrin core, exhibits a stronger charge-transfer character compared with the relative A4-porphyrins bearing the donor-acceptor system through the pyrrolic positions.
The most advances on designing effective β-porphyrin dyes range from the coupling of porphyrin core with conjugated strong acceptors, which stabilize the LUMO level and simultaneously serve as additional chromophores turning the porphyrin into panchromatic dyes, to rising the HOMO level by adding electron-donating moieties on the periphery of the porphyrin core.
AbstractPorphyrinoids are considered perfect candidates for their incorporation into electron donor–acceptor (D–A) arrays due to their remarkable optoelectronic properties and low reorganization energies.
[1]  In this regard, electron donor‐acceptor (D–A) systems have experienced a growing interest for their ability to generate long‐lived charge‐separation states (CSS) upon capture of photons which, in turn, may be transformed into useful forms of energy.
Marcus defined λ as the energy required for the electron donor and the electron acceptor to structurally reorganize with their solvation spheres upon electron transfer (eT).
[12]  As electron donors, Pors have been preferred over the rest of porphyrinoids due to their appropriate photophysical properties and synthetic accessibility.
[13]  In this regard, Cors, [14]  contracted analogs of Pors, are selected as better suitable donors.
[15]  At the same time, fullerenes have prevailed as the main acceptor counterparts for D–A systems due to their excellent photophysical features, like low reorganization energies and low reduction potentials.
The field of artificial photosynthetic systems has registered a rising interest in the design of novel non‐fullerene acceptor (NFA) molecules.
Although copper corroles (CuCor) are better known for their behavior as non‐innocent ligands, [18]  their role as electron acceptor molecules in D–A schemes was recently highlighted by D'Souza and co‐workers.
[19]  Second, the fewer reports in the literature of Cors acting as electron acceptor ligands in D–A systems led us to further explore their possibilities by swapping their electronic features, including a highly electro‐deficient phosphorus corrole (PCor) as the acceptor and an electron‐rich SubPc as the donor.
By means of rational electrochemical and photophysical experiments, we were able to determine CSS in all the D–A conjugates comprising electron donor Cors.
Five different electron donor–acceptor conjugates involving corroles (Cors) and subphthalocyanines (SubPcs) connected through a short molecular linker have been prepared.
Although copper was incorporated into Cors to enhance the resulting acceptor strength, similarly short CSS lifetimes were observed.
AbstractThe development of organic photoactive materials, especially the newly emerging non-fullerene electron acceptors (NFAs), has enabled rapid progress in organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells in recent years.
Recent achievements in OPV cells are dominated by development and application of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) [23–25].
(c) Normalized absorption spectra of the neat donor and acceptors in thin films.
In addition, we also conducted the GIWAXS measurements on blend films based on PBDB-TF as donor (Supplementary Fig.
By employing the polymer donor PBDB-TF, and the NFA BTP-4Cl-12, we successfully demonstrated a high PCE of 17% in single-junction OPV cells.
Here we present LMD simulations of charge transfer between a pair of fullerene molecules, which commonly serve as electron acceptors in OSCs.
1.30 Fullerenes are widely used in organic semiconductors, with PCBM being one of the most commonly used electron acceptors in OPVs.
However, this does not significantly complicate things: the code can simply perform a simulation of transfer to each of the possible acceptors utilizing the same set of random numbers R(t), and the accepting molecule that attains transfer most quickly will then be selected as the new position of the pseudo-atom.
The general active layer structure of an organic photovoltaic device is donor-acceptor (D-A) heterojunction3.
For example, due to the different electron-phonon (e-ph) coupling of the acceptor from the donor, the electron and hole in acceptor and donor respectively will have different spin polarization intensities, which result in a net spin for an inter-molecule exciton.
The donors are conjugated polymers, and the acceptors are small molecules.
In the tight-binding approach, they are given respectively by,2\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\begin{array}{rcl}{H}_{D} & = & -\sum _{i,s}{E}_{D}{d}_{i,s}^{+}{d}_{i,s}-\sum _{i,s}{t}_{i,i+1}({d}_{i,s}^{+}{d}_{i+1,s}+{d}_{i+1,s}^{+}{d}_{i,s})\\  &  & +\sum _{i}{U}_{D}{d}_{i,\uparrow }^{+}{d}_{i,\uparrow }{d}_{i,\downarrow }^{+}{d}_{i,\downarrow }-\sum _{i}{t}_{so}({d}_{i+1,\uparrow }^{+}{d}_{i,\downarrow }+{d}_{i,\downarrow }^{+}{d}_{i+1,\uparrow }-{d}_{i+1,\downarrow }^{+}{d}_{i,\uparrow }-{d}_{i,\uparrow }^{+}{d}_{i+1,\downarrow })\\  &  & +\,\frac{1}{2}K\sum _{i}{({u}_{i+1}-{u}_{i})}^{2}\end{array}$$\end{document}HD=−∑i,sEDdi,s+di,s−∑i,sti,i+1(di,s+di+1,s+di+1,s+di,s)+∑iUDdi,↑+di,↑di,↓+di,↓−∑itso(di+1,↑+di,↓+di,↓+di+1,↑−di+1,↓+di,↑−di,↑+di+1,↓)+12K∑i(ui+1−ui)2 3\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${H}_{A}=-\,\sum _{j,s}{E}_{A}{a}_{j,s}^{+}{a}_{j,s}+\sum _{i}{U}_{A}{a}_{j,\uparrow }^{+}{a}_{j,\uparrow }{a}_{j,\downarrow }^{+}{a}_{j,\downarrow }$$\end{document}HA=−∑j,sEAaj,s+aj,s+∑iUAaj,↑+aj,↑aj,↓+aj,↓ 4\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${H}_{DA}=-\,\sum _{ < i,j > ,s}{t}_{DA}({d}_{i,s}^{+}{a}_{j,s}+{a}_{j,s}^{+}{d}_{i,s})-\sum _{ < i,j > }J{\overrightarrow{s}}_{i}\cdot {\overrightarrow{s}}_{j}$$\end{document}HDA=−∑<i,j>,stDA(di,s+aj,s+aj,s+di,s)−∑<i,j>Js→i⋅s→jwhere E D(A) is the on-site energy of the π-electrons on the polymer (small molecules), which determine the energy offset between donor and acceptor.
It is known that the number of transferred electrons in organic charge transfer composite is a controllable physical quantity, which could be changed through tuning the interfacial coupling between donor and acceptor36 or changing incident light intensity.
All-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs) are organic solar cells in which both the electron donor and the acceptor are polymers and are considered more promising in large-scale production.
Thanks to the polymerizing small molecule acceptor strategy, the power conversion efficiency of all-PSCs has ushered in a leap in recent years.
However, due to the electrical properties of polymerized small-molecule acceptors (PSMAs), the FF of the devices is generally not high.
While the classical OSCs active layer consists of a polymer donor and a fullerene derivative acceptor [8], with the development of non-fullerene acceptor materials, the mainstream of research has now shifted to a material system based on a polymer donor and a non-fullerene acceptor [9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17].
Compared with fullerene acceptors, non-fullerene acceptors have flexible chemical structure designs and thus easily tunable optoelectronic properties, endowing them with more compatible absorbance spectra and electrical properties with the donor.
In terms of materials, non-fullerene acceptors are divided into two main categories: small-molecule acceptors and polymer acceptors.
In contrast to the small molecule acceptor, when the acceptor is polymer, all-polymer solar cells (All-PSCs) can be prepared by combining with a polymer donor.
In addition to similar advantages to small-molecule acceptor-based OSCs, All-PSCs possess better mechanical properties [20,21], such as higher tensile and flexural toughness, and potentially higher thermal stability, which provide them with better prospects for large-scale production [22].
The all-PSCs field has evolved over 20 years, starting with the earliest polymer donor materials based on poly(p-phenylene vinylidene) (PPV) units.
Nevertheless, the fill factor (FF) of all-polymer solar cell devices is relatively low (Figure 1) compared to their fullerene or small molecule acceptor counterparts, mainly due to complicated morphology control.
The current molecular design strategy, namely, polymerizing the high-performance small molecular acceptor, led to a surge of polymer acceptors with excellent photovoltaic performance, which significantly improved device efficiency in this field.
However, despite the fact that the state-of-the-art devices based on the polymerized small molecule acceptors (PSMAs) exhibit high open-circuit voltages (VOCs) and short circuit currents (JSCs), the FFs for a large fraction of them are relatively low due to the difference in the morphological and electrical properties between the polymer donor (high degree of polymerization) and the PSMA (low degree of polymerization).
One of the solutions to this issue is optimizing the morphology and charge transport property, but for a given set of donor and acceptor materials, this can be difficult.
Since its first report, PDINN has been most utilized in polymer:small molecule acceptor OSCs and proved effective in different cases, but it has not been adopted in all-PSCs with PCEs >16%.
In this work, we report all-PSCs with PM6 as the donor, PYF-T-o or PY-IT as the acceptor, and PNDIT-F3N or PDINN as the electron transport material.
The different kinds of devices:The PM6:PYF-T-o blend (1:1.2 weight ratio) was dissolved in chloroform (the concentration of donor was 6 mg mL−1 for all blends) with 1-chloronaphthalene (1% vol) as an additive and stirred overnight in a nitrogen-filled glove box.
The blend solution was spin-casted at 2500 rpm for 30 s onto the PEDOT:PSS films, followed by a thermal annealing step at 95 °C for 5 min.The PM6:PY-IT blend (1:1.2 weight ratio) was dissolved in chloroform (the concentration of donor was 6 mg mL−1 for all blends) with 1-chloronaphthalene (1% vol) as an additive and stirred overnight in a nitrogen-filled glove box.
The PM6:PYF-T-o blend (1:1.2 weight ratio) was dissolved in chloroform (the concentration of donor was 6 mg mL−1 for all blends) with 1-chloronaphthalene (1% vol) as an additive and stirred overnight in a nitrogen-filled glove box.
The PM6:PY-IT blend (1:1.2 weight ratio) was dissolved in chloroform (the concentration of donor was 6 mg mL−1 for all blends) with 1-chloronaphthalene (1% vol) as an additive and stirred overnight in a nitrogen-filled glove box.
The chemical structural formulas of the donor PM6 and the acceptors PYF-T-o and PY-IT are shown in Figure 2a.
is the introduction of donor-acceptor-donor organic molecule 4,4′,4′′-(1-hexyl-1H-dithieno [3′,2′:3,4; 2′′,3′′:5,6] benzo [1,2-d] imidazole-2,5,8-triyl) tris (N,N-bis(4-methoxyphenyl) aniline (M2) to try to alleviate the inherent hydrophobicity of PTAA, which hinders the production of high-quality perovskite films on PTAA substrates [56].
The carbonyl group (electron-pair donor) in the indigo molecule can interact with the uncoordinated Lewis acid Pb2+ on the perovskite surface and the Pb-I antisite defect, and the amino group can interact with the I-site.
In the current work, eleven terpolymer donors with different electron-withdrawing groups were designed and investigated based on the reported PTB7Ir to screen outstanding donors for triplet-material-based organic photovoltaics (T-OPVs).
The results show that designed 5, 8, 10 and 11 possess larger spin–orbit couplings (SOC) affinity and smaller ΔEST and −ΔGCRT values, which could effectively suppress the triplet charge recombination process at the donor/acceptor interface.
Excitingly, the designed terpolymer 10 presents enhanced light absorption, revealing that it will be a promising donor candidate for high-performance T-OPV devices.
Moreover, the results can provide theoretical guidelines to predict new terpolymer donors of T-OPVs.Compared with PTB7Ir, the designed terpolymer 10 will be a promising donor candidate for high-performance T-OPVs.
In OPV devices, excitons are photogenerated in donor (D) and/or acceptor (A) species and dissociated at D/A interfaces.
On one hand, triplet excitons can provide sufficient time for the CT state to dissociate the bound charge pair rather than recombination, because their radiative decay is dipole forbidden which will lead to longer lifetimes.11,12 On the other hand, it is found that the charge transfer from the lowest charge transfer triplet (3CT1) to triplet excited (T1) states, i.e., the charge recombination to triplet (CRT), can be prevented when the energy level of 3CT state is lower than that of T1 state of donor materials.13,14 The state diagram of various photophysical processes is shown in Fig.
State diagram of various photophysical processes in the case of “donor” excitation for T-OPVs.
Excitons are photogenerated in donors and dissociated at D/A interfaces, when CT energy below the T1 state, photoexcited excitons go through a fast intersystem crossing (ISC) from S1 to T1 states at a rate kISC (green dotted arrow), then the 3CT states are formed from the T1 at a rate kCTT (red arrow), and finally separated into free charges at a rate kCS (purple arrow); also, one possibility even in the triplet system, 1CT excitons may generate from S1 without going through T1 at a rate kCT (red dotted arrow).
Compared to PTB7, the PCEs of the devices based on PTB7Ir1 (containing 1 mol% Ir concentration) were all enhanced over 30%.12 In addition, they introduced a low concentration of Pt/Ir complexes into the PTB7-Th polymer backbone (it is made by grafting the 2-ethylhexyl-thienyl group into the benzodithiophene unit of PTB7) by a similar approach, achieving the increases of PCEs from 7.92% to 8.45% and 9.19%, respectively.19,20 However, so far, there are no explicit design strategies of terpolymer donors containing heavy metal complexes of triplet material-based OPVs (T-OPVs), because it is difficult to build a direct relationship between photoelectric conversion efficiency and molecular structure of the donor or D/A complex.
Besides, the proper increase of angle and number of torsional angles between electron donating and withdrawing units of terpolymer donors can prevent the CRT process and further improve photovoltaic performance.
Herein, in the basis of PTB7Ir, we designed eleven terpolymers 1–11 through modifying and replacing the electron-withdrawing acceptor groups of PTB7Ir.
We expect that this work may serve as a theoretical guideline for the design and synthesis of high-performance T-OPV terpolymer donors.
Our previous results indicated that when PC71BM is docked with the centre of polymer donor, the interfacial arrangement is preferable for PTB7Ir/PC71BM complex, since the lowest energies occur at the configuration.21 Therefore, in current work, for each D/PC71BM interface model, the starting configuration is designated that benzene cycle of PC71BM is oriented parallel to the thiophene (for PTB7Ir, 1 and 2 molecules) or benzene (for 3–11 molecules) cycles of acceptor units which are closer to the (dfppy)2Ir(dbm) complexes, which has been proved to be a preferred interfacial arrangement in our previous research.
The initial distances between terpolymer donors and PC71BM were fixed at 3.5 Å.
3, twist angles between donor (benzothiadiazole, BDT) and acceptor (fluorinated benzothiadiazole, F-TT) units of PTB7Ir are in the range from 15° to 32°.
Obviously, 6 and 9 show perfect planar constructions, and the optimized twist angles between BDT and acceptor units (FBT for 6 and DFBT for 9) are also about 0°, which is attributed to N⋯H and F⋯S attractive interactions.
Schematic illustration of twist angles between donor and acceptor moieties of PTB7Ir, 1 and 3–5.
Also, the HOMO energy levels (EHOMO) calculated at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) (LANL2DZ for Ir atom) level are displayed in Table S2 in ESI.† Additionally, the FMO energy levels of the acceptor PC71BM measured in experiment are also depicted in Fig.
The energetic driving force ΔEL–L, defined by the difference between LUMO levels of donor and acceptor, is an important factor to evaluate charge separation ability at D/A interface.28,39 The charge separation of polymers will occur when ΔEL–L > 0.3 eV which is the estimated value of empirical exciton binding energy for polymers.37,40 As seen from Fig.
It is acknowledged that absorption spectra of donors need match the solar spectrum to ensure the efficient photovoltaic conversion, which will increase the Jsc and thus improve the PCE.41–43 The absorption spectra of PTB7Ir and 1–11 are shown in Fig.
For designed 3, 6 and 9, LUMO orbitals are mainly localized the middle three BDT units and three organic acceptor units.
For other designed molecules, LUMO orbitals are localized the second and third BDT units from right, π-bridges, and organic acceptor units.
In T-OPVs, photoconversion channel that we are mainly concerned about is the CRT process, which can be estimated from the state diagram with measured/calculated relative energetic positions of S1 and T1 on the donor material and the CT1 at the D/A interface.13,45 Therefore, our discussion focuses on energy levels of S1, T1 and CT1 rather than higher excited states.
6), for PTB7Ir molecule, an obvious local excitation (LE) within the middle three BDT and F-TT units appears in both S1 and T1 states, which will lead to a small SOC; for 4 molecule, besides the LE character within organic acceptor units, a clear CT character from middle two BDT donor units to organic acceptor units also occurs in the S1 state because of the spatial separation of LUMO wave function, while only LE character appears in the T1 state, consequently, 4 molecule will exhibit a lager SOC value than PTB7Ir due to the change in π-conjugation between S1 and T1 states.
Note that the electrons of these CT excited states are mainly confined to acceptors.22,30,48 As displayed in Fig.
Differently, for other heterojunctions, the 1CT1 states involve PC71BM-localized π–π* transition and electronic transitions from donors to PC71BM.
Moreover, for 5/PC71BM, 8/PC71BM and 11/PC71BM heterojunctions, Ir complexes take part in the intermolecular charge transfer from terpolymer donors to PC71BM, because their twist structures along polymer backbones increase donor–acceptor interactions via a decreasing in the distance between donor (mainly containing Ir complex and adjacent BDT unit) and acceptor.
The increasing donor–acceptor interactions could enhance the electron–hole binding energy and result in a decrease in CT state energy.49 Additionally, the Ir complex of 6/PC71BM also involve the intermolecular charge transfer due to the short distance between Ir complex and acceptor.
Likewise, the transition of 3CT1 states for all heterojunctions are deemed to the charge transfer from donor polymers to PC71BM (Fig.
The results illustrate that the increasing twist angles along terpolymer backbones can promote the intermolecular charge transfer process from metal complex to acceptor and reduce CT state energy in T-OPVs.
The energy of CT1 state could be calculated through the equation ECT1 = |EIP(D) − EEA(A)| + ECoul,13,52 in which EIP(D) and EEA(A) refer to the ionization potential of donor and the electron affinity of acceptor, which are estimated by the HOMO energy of donor and LUMO energy of acceptor, respectively.53ECoul represents for the Coulomb interaction energy between the cation of donor and anion of accept, which is calculated using the formula ECoul=(1/4πε0εr)∑i∈D+∑j∈A−(qiqj/rij).
The result indicates that, compared with PTB7Ir, designed 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10 and 11 exhibit smaller −ΔGCRT values due to the twist donor backbones.
Here, the value “−0.1 eV” is considered as the minimum −ΔGCRT, which can give rise to the CRT process.45 As a result, we infer that designed 10 will be a promising terpolymer donor for high-performance T-OPVs because of its broad and red-shifted absorption and suppressed CRT process at D/A interface.
To summarize, motivated by the consideration of increasing the efficiency of photocurrent generation of T-OPVs, eleven terpolymer donors have been designed and characterized based on PTB7Ir using DFT and TD-DFT methods.
Consequently, the designed 10 possess enhanced light absorption, larger SOC affinity, smaller ΔEST and −ΔGCRT values, which will be a promising candidate for terpolymer donors in high-performance T-OPVs.
Furthermore, an effective and integrated method to predict terpolymer donors embedded with metal complexes of T-OPVs is described systematically.
A fused-ring electron acceptor (FREA) NDIC is designed and synthesized.
Our results demonstrate that a tiny variation in the molecular structure could dramatically affect the optical and electrochemical properties, and thus the photovoltaic performance.NDIC with a naphthalene ring as the core unit is synthesized and used as an acceptor material to fabricate organic solar cells.
Polymer solar cells (PSCs) as clean energy conversion devices have received extensive attention due to their light weight, low cost, flexibility, and suitability for roll-to-roll printing.1–5 In the past several decades, the active layer of PSC devices, typically with a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure, usually consists of conjugated polymers as donors and fullerene derivatives as acceptors.
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) has reached over 11% for PSCs based on fullerene derivative acceptors.
However, it is hard to further enhance the PCE of fullerene based PSCs due to the inherent limitations of fullerene derivatives, such as low absorption coefficient and limited absorption region.6 To further enhance the photovoltaic performance of PSCs, fused-ring electron acceptors (FREAs) were developed to fabricate high efficiency PSCs.7–9 Compared with traditional fullerene acceptors, nonfullerene acceptors have many advantages, such as facile synthesis, high absorption coefficient, adjustable energy levels, wide absorption region and so on.10,11 A series of high efficiency nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) with an electron donating ladder-type central core and two electron withdrawing end groups were developed.
In 2015, Zhan and co-workers firstly designed and synthesized ITIC,12 a PCE of 7% was achieved with PTB7-Th as donor polymer.
High efficiency FREAs normally possess planar backbones to facilitate the intramolecular charge transfer between the donor unit and the acceptor unit, and the protruded side chains to suppress self-aggregation to form large aggregates.
The as-cast PSCs based on PDBT-T1:IDIC blended films showed a PCE of 8.71% and an optimal PCE of over 11% by matching with polymer donor PTFBDT-BZS.21 IDIC was also used to fabricate OSCs with a thick active layer by Zhang et al.22,23 To further extend the chemical structures, as shown in Fig.
It is worth noting that the same acceptor was also reported by Zhan et al.,24 PTB7-Th:IHIC-N based binary devices exhibited an inferior PCE of 6.91% compared with its analogue IHIC (10.6%), and the ternary devices gave an improved PCE of 11.9%.
To further explore the possibility of improving the photovoltaic performance of NDIC, PBDB-T was selected as the donor material due to its high hole mobility and deep HOMO energy level.19,25–29 According to the literature, the elevated LUMO levels of acceptors and the decreased highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of donors could effectively increase the open-circuit voltage of PSCs.30,31 Due to the elevated LUMO energy levels of NDIC, PSCs based on NDIC exhibit an Voc of 0.90 V which is much higher that of IDIC (0.79 V).
The packing of acceptors in films is studied by wide angle X-ray diffraction (XRD).
S4,† the two acceptors display varied packing styles.
The photovoltaic performance of IDIC and NDIC was investigated by fabricating inverted devices of ITO/ZnO/donor:acceptor/MoO3/Ag.
The ZnO layer was prepared according to pervious reported procedure.33 PBDB-T was used as the donor to evaluate the photovoltaic performance of IDIC and NDIC.
PBDB-T was used as polymer donor to evaluate the photovoltaic performance.
The synthesis of pro-quinoïdal copolymers [5] or of copolymers alternating electron-donor (D) and electron acceptor (A) moieties [6] have, for instance, turned out to be particularly useful.
demonstrated a PCE of 8% in all polymer solar cells using PTB7 as electron donor material [15,16].
This result was expected since it has been established that the Voc in donor/acceptor BHJ solar cells is proportional to the difference between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor [52].
This result is somewhat surprising, as it is generally believed that the HOMO level of a D/A copolymer should be mostly controlled by the fluorine-free electron-donor moiety [6].
Critical morphological parameters are essentially the average donor and acceptor domain size, the domain purity and microstructure, as well as the D/A interface properties.
investigated the fluorination of benzothiadiazole in a D/A copolymer including thiophene-dialkoxybenzene-thiophene as an electron-donor comonomer [70,81].
investigated the influence of fluorination of both electron-donor and electron-acceptor moieties [80] including either two, three or four fluorine atoms along the conjugated monomer backbones (see 2F, 3F and 4F copolymers in Figure 14).
We note that PTB7 and PBB3 have similar donor and acceptor building blocks (except for the fluorine atom on the thieno[3,4-b]thiophene unit) but differing conjugated backbones as well as different solubilizing side-chains (for PTB7, R1 = R2 = 2-ethylhexyl, while for PBB3, R1 = R2 = 2-butyloctyl).
Consequently, the negative charge tends to be more localized in this unit, facilitating electron transfer to the PCBM acceptor, while the positive charge remains localized on the electron-rich benzodithiophene unit.
Due to the limited exciton diffusion length (around 10 nm), photogenerated excitons are expected to recombine very efficiently before reaching a donor/acceptor interface in the case of PTBF2 and PTBF3.
In blends with an electron-donor fluorinated PTB derivative (PBDTT-TT-F), the fluorinated derivative led to significant PCE increase in inverted solar cell devices (Table 6).
The lowering of the HOMO is of particular interest in photovoltaic applications, as the open circuit voltage (Voc) increases when the HOMO of the electron-donor polymer is lowered.
However, it is established that fluorinated electron-donor polymers presenting highly interesting properties for photovoltaic applications have been synthesized.
It has also been proven that fluorinated electron-donor polymers can lead to very high hole mobility, and well-balanced and reasonably high charge carrier mobility in blends with PCBM has been measured in the substrate plane as well as in the direction perpendicular to the substrate.
Experimentally, high free charge carrier generation rates as well as limited bimolecular recombination have been measured in blends based on fluorinated materials as electron-donor polymers.
Photovoltaic cells elaborated with an electron-donor polymer presenting all the positive properties mentioned above will lead to high short-circuit current density (Jsc), open-circuit voltage (Voc) and fill-factor (FF) values.
Fluorinated electron-donor polymers are very promising candidates for this ideal polymer, as impressive photovoltaic parameters (Jsc = 18.8 mA/cm2; FF = 75%; Voc = 0.77 V) with an overall PCE of 10.8% have been recently reported for such a polymer [4].
Other experiments to determine the triplet excited state energy are direct singlet (S0) to triplet (T1) absorption19, indirect triplet depopulating quenching studies incorporating various acceptors of known triplet energy20, and electron energy loss spectroscopy21 – none of which have a high degree of accessibility and generality.
For a model compound N,N′-bis(4-benzoyl-phenyl)-N,N′-diphenyl-benzidine [(BzP)BP] with noticeable phosphorescence at room temperature29, we even observe – in contrast to the general trend – an increase of phosphorescence going from 77 K to 293 K. In addition, we discuss easily combinable concepts that increase the triplet population upon photo-excitation either through an indirect triplet sensitization using a triplet donor or through enhanced ISC through externally induced spin-orbit coupling.
Thus, incorporating BP as an additive to a host guest system, absorption of light by BP yields singlets that are immediately converted into BP triplets, which then can transfer energy directly to the triplet state of the material of interest (acceptor) via Dexter energy transfer36.
Here, the only possible major loss channel is the direct Förster resonant energy transfer (FRET) from BP singlet to acceptor singlet.
4a plots absorption data of various thin films differently composed of PMMA, BP, and the acceptor material (BzP)PB.
This allows to probe the acceptor luminescence individually (excitation > 400 nm) and, further, to create triplets on BP and vary their fraction to the total population by changing the excitation wavelength.
Thus, clearly, the additive BP alters the fraction of singlets versus triplets in the acceptor dye towards more triplets, intensifying the phosphorescence.
The donor/acceptor weight ratio is crucial for photovoltaic performance of organic solar cells (OSCs).
Especially an impressive efficiency over 10% has been achieved in dilute donor solar cells with 10 wt % PM6 enabled by efficient charge generation, electron/hole transport, slow charge recombination, and field-insensitive extraction.
This raises the question about the origin of efficient hole transport in such dilute donor structure.
The results indicate that a low fraction of polymer donors combines with near-infrared nonfullerene acceptors could achieve high photovoltaic performance, which might be a candidate for semitransparent windows.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) based on nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) have achieved rapid development in recent years due to the tunable energy levels and absorption spectra of NFAs.1−6 The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of single-junction OSCs has reached over 18%.7−9 In NFA-OSCs, efficient charge separation and low voltage losses can be achieved simultaneously, yielding high short circuit current density (Jsc) and open-circuit voltage (Voc).10−12 The third important parameter fill factor (FF) is strongly affected by the competition between charge transport and recombination.
It has been demonstrated that efficient charge transport and suppressed recombination losses are largely related to balanced electron and hole mobility in OSCs.13,14 Generally, a continuous interpenetrating network of donor and acceptor is considered to be significant for charge transport.15 Therefore, the donor/acceptor (D/A) blend composition is important for charge transport and device performance.
Typically, in dilute donor heterojunctions where the average distance between individual donor domain enlarges, that may reduce hopping rate of hole.
The unbalanced charge transport can induce a space-charge effect, causing more recombination loss and poor performance.16 Interestingly, some previous studies have reported that fullerene based OSCs with very low donor contents could maintain efficient hole transport.17,18 It was proposed that hole tunneling could occur between isolated donors,19,20 another possible channel is that fullerene acceptors such as PCBM can act as an ambipolar conductor for both electrons and holes in dilute donor solar cells.17,21,22
Compared to the clarification on the exclusive role of fullerene acceptors in dilute donor solar cells, charge generation, transport, and recombination in dilute donor devices with NFAs are rarely investigated.
Dilute donor solar cells are interesting models to understand the role of acceptors on charge generation, transport and extraction.
Therefore, it will be informative to investigate the correlation between photovoltaic performance and donor/acceptor blend composition in NFA-OSCs.
The results of femtosecond transient absorption (TA) spectroscopy indicate efficient charge transfer in dilute donor blend films.
Moreover, slow charge recombination and almost field-independent charge extraction in the dilute donor devices were observed in dilute donor solar cells.
As shown in Figure 1, the performance of the OSCs exhibit a high tolerance to donor content ranging from 10 to 60 wt %.
It is worth noting that dilute donor devices show much better performance than the devices with high donor contents, especially Jsc and FF.
To understand the origin of high performance of the OSCs with such low donor contents, charge generation, transport, and recombination were investigated.
The larger root-mean-square (RMS) of 10 wt % PM6:Y6 films (Figure S5) also indicates strong molecular aggregation, which could lead to oversized domains.31 Our previous work has shown that excitons will be created away from the interface and thus spend longer time to diffuse to the interfaces because of the larger domain in BHJ films with low donor contents.25 Similarly, the exciton diffusion mediated hole transfer lifetime τ2 in PM6:Y6 blends decreases with the amount of donor, as shown in Figure 2b.
In addition, the decay signals in Figure 2a indicate that PM6:Y6 blend films with low donor contents behave slower decay (half-lifetime of 1.45 ns for 5% PM6-based BHJs and 1.5 ns for 10 wt % PM6-based BHJs) than 90 wt % PM6-based BHJs (∼0.35 ns), suggesting slower charge recombination in dilute donor blends.
Interestingly, the hole mobilities have little correlation with the PM6 contents, the devices even with 10 wt % PM6 can still exhibit a high electron mobility of 2.7 × 10–4 cm2 V–1 s–1 and a hole mobility of 6.8 × 10–5 cm2 V–1 s–1 (Table S4), indicating efficient charge transport in such dilute donor structure.
Electron and hole mobilities in PM6:Y6 OSCs with various donor contents extracted from SCLC in single-carrier devices.
The relatively low α = 0.76 in the device based on 90 wt % PM6 implies stronger recombination, which indicates that there is the emergence of strong space charges effect in 90 wt % donor devices mainly caused by extremely unbalanced charge transport.16,32Figure 4b shows Voc dependence on light intensity, the slopes (n) of PM6:Y6 devices with 10 and 45 wt % donor are around 1.3, indicating that the recombination is primarily via the bimolecular pathways with a minor role of trap-assisted recombination.33,34 The slope of the dilute acceptor device (90 wt % PM6) is very close to unity, which suggests that photogenerated carriers are purely lost via bimolecular recombination.
In the case of extremely unbalanced D/A ratios, a discontinuous interpenetrating network of donor and acceptor might be an important issue for charge transport.
Also, a reduced contact area of anode/donor or cathode/acceptor could lead to a low charge extraction efficiency.
The EQE spectra of devices with 10 and 45 wt % donor contents are almost insensitive to bias, which is consistent with the bias-TPC results.
As for the origin of efficient hole transport in dilute donor devices, we assume following hole transport pathways: (i) There is possibility for holes tunneling between isolated donors.19 (ii) Holes can transport directly in donor phase.
Furthermore, according to grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) data (Figure S10), the (100) diffraction peak for PM6 at 0.32 Å–1 in in-plane was also observed in 10 wt % PM6:Y6 films, which was most probably induced by the face-oriented Y6 molecules.35 This phenomenon reveals that, although in the dilute donor blend, the donor exhibits ordered structure, which can account for high hole mobility in dilute donor devices.
In addition, hole transfer from donor to acceptor is generally unfavored, because the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of Y6 (−5.7 eV) is deeper than that of PM6 (−5.48 eV), which was confirmed by cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements (Figure S11 and Table S5).
Therefore, it is plausible that NFA Y6 has little contribution to hole transport in the dilute donor structure with 10 wt % PM6 (iii), even though Y6 has ambipolar transport characteristics.
Given the discussions above, in the dilute donor devices, 10% of PM6 can form efficient hole transport pathways, enabling well-balanced charge transport with sufficiently high mobilities.
A high PCE exceeding 10% was achieved in the dilute donor devices (10 wt % PM6) synergized by efficient hole transfer, charge transport, slow charge recombination, and field-insensitive extraction proved with results of TA, TPV, TPC, and bias-dependent EQE.
Good performance of dilute donor heterojunctions may open new applications such as for near-infrared photodetectors or semitransparent photovoltaic panels.
The local electronic structure of 6Mn2+:CsPbCl3 shares many analogies with that typical of octahedral transition metal complexes with π-donor ligands,54 as schematized in Figure 1b, where a qualitative molecular orbital diagram for a 6MnCl64– model complex is reported.
Binary bulk heterojunction solar cells employing P3HT or PTB7 as the donor and the SiPc as the acceptor provided power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of up to 2.7% under simulated solar illumination.
Silicon phthalocyanines have been explored more widely as dyes and electron donors and acceptors in photovoltaic applications than in EL devices.
The highest power conversion efficiency (PCE) in a dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) employing an SiPc dye with the adsorbing carboxylate unit directly attached to the Pc macrocycle was recently reported by Sellinger and co-workers to be 4.5%, with a short-circuit current of 19.0 mA cm–2.6 PCEs decrease markedly when the adsorbing unit is attached to the axial ligands about the SiPc.31,32 Silicon phthalocyanines bearing tri-n-hexylsilyloxy axial substituents have been used as additives in ternary bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSC), where they act not only as dyes but also as charge transporting agents.33−35 Efficiencies for these devices reach up to 4.9%.35 The replacement of n-hexylsiyloxy groups with fluorinated phenoxy moieties resulted in improved PCE (>2%) in planar heterojunction OSCs, where the SiPcs can act as both electron donors or electron acceptors.34
In BHJ solar cells, fullerene derivatives are widely used as acceptors, but their weak absorption in the visible spectrum, the difficulty in tuning the band gap by chemical modification, and their high price are all detracting features, which has catalyzed the search for replacement candidate non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) materials.36 Among NFA materials investigated to date, those based on perylenediimide (PDI) have been widely explored as they possess electron affinities, EA, around 3.9 eV, which are similar to fullerene acceptors.37 Recently, a PCE of 7.16% has been reported using a wide-band gap polymer PDBT-T1 donor in concert with a perylene bisimide dimer as an acceptor in BHJ organic solar cells.38 Cnops and co-workers reported a PCE of 6.8% using boron subphthalocyanine (BsubPc)-based donor and acceptor materials.39 Indeed, PCEs for state-of-the-art NFA OSC have exceeded 8% for evaporated three-layer devices based on BsubPc acceptors40 while PCEs of 6.8% have been obtained for solution-processed planar heterojunction photovoltaic devices using a bespoke conjugated acceptor.41 Acceptors based on phthalocynanines have also been explored, and the handful of reports in literature in which silicon and germanium phthalocyanines are used as acceptors in planar heterojunction photovoltaic devices show PCEs in the devices of only up to 2%.10,11,34
SiPcs and 1 and 2 were investigated as dyes and electron-acceptor materials in binary BHJ OSCs in conjunction with electron donor polymers P3HT or PTB7 (Figure 7).
The obtained PCE is in close agreement with the values reported in the literature.42,43 The current density–voltage (J–V) characteristics of the OSCs using SiPc acceptors are shown in Figure 8, and the device data is summarized in Table 3.
The VOC of the OSC employing P3HT as the donor is 0.26 V less than when PTB7 acts as the donor.
This PCE, although lower than the reference OSC, is nevertheless superior to the previous OSCs using SiPc or GePc acceptor materials.
Replacement of 2 with 1 as the acceptor results in an order of magnitude lower short-circuit current (JSC = 0.60 mA), which we speculate is due to the reduced charge mobility of the SiPc dye due to the insulating eicosanoate groups.
A disadvantage of PC60BM, which is widely used as an acceptor, is its weak absorption.
It is desirable for acceptors to contribute to light absorption.
We investigated this by measuring the EQE spectra for a range of donor/acceptor weight ratios, and the results for PTB7:2 and P3HT:2 are shown in Figure 9 and in Figure S8, respectively.
On the other hand, both CuI and MoOx are typical wide-bandgap semiconductors with deep work function of above 5.2 eV, being close to the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of organic donor molecules.
MoOx is also used as an electron acceptor for doping organic semiconductor and CNTs, while CuI can act a structural template to control the molecular growth to improve the OPV cells.
[153] OPV cells were fabricated with using tetraphenyldibenzoperiflanthene (DBP) as a donor and fullerene (C60) as an acceptor.
Furthermore, electronic modifications of the backbone were also incorporated via the addition of thiophene-based acceptor units, such as 4H thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4-,6(5H)-dione and thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (Figure 4a) [40].
This strategy also promoted a facile modification of the electronic properties of the 4T backbone via incorporation of electron-deficient subunits, thus forming donor−acceptor type molecules.
DPP was chosen due to its electron acceptor ability and broad absorption, covering a wide range of wavelengths from the UV (<350 nm) up to ~700 nm [62].
Its solvatochromism has been compared with other pyrene-based COFs with decreasingly electron-deficient aldehyde counterparts: (1) a linear acene dialdehyde, 1P(CHO)2 that increases the polarity within the linear bridge and doubles the number of weakly accepting imines with a much stronger charge-transfer character; and (2) tetradentate 1,3,6,8-tetrakis(4-formylphenyl)pyrene, Py(CHO)4, which produces the smallest donor–acceptor contrast, derived mainly from the slightly polarized, electron-accepting imine.
In another example, two electron-rich thiophene derivatives (thieno[3,2-b]thiophene-2,5-dicarbaldehyde and [2,2′-bithiophene]-5,5′-dicarbaldehyde) were combined with an electron-deficient 4,4′,4′′-(1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triyl)trianiline to yield two types of donor-acceptor COFs named as TTT-DTDA-COF and TTT-BTDA-COF (Figure 10a) [70].
This scaffold has C3 symmetry, a rigid and planar structure and, as a large fused aromatic system, can behave as electron acceptor moiety.
used this BTT unit in combination with triphenylamine TPA linker to yield the BTT-TPA-COF (Figure 13a), in which the TPA behaves as the electron donor of the coupling pair [39].
Based on those excellent properties, the TT-COF was used as a host for an electron acceptor fullerene derivative, [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM, Figure 14b).
Considering the high charge-carrier mobilities and stability under ambient conditions of semiconducting polymers based on the thieno[2,3-b]thiophene building blocks [73], along with the demonstrated photoinduced charge transfer from polymerized thienothiophene derivatives to fullerene-based acceptor molecules [74], the PCBM@TT-COF complex was proposed as an ordered bulk heterojunction material for implementation in a photovoltaic device (Figure 14c).
Steady-state and time-resolved spectroscopic studies showed charge transfer from the photoconductive TT-COF donor network to the encapsulated PCBM phase in the pore system.
PTB7 in dilute solution has been shown to have spectral signatures of a long-lived “Charge Separated” (CS) state, a precursor to free charge carriers, which was previously observed only in BHJ blends with electron acceptors such as PCBM (Phenyl-C61-buyric acid methyl ester) [22,25] in ultrafast experiments.
While the presence of triplets at longer times in PTB7 is uncontroversial [41], we contend that the species produced in the ultrafast regime is a charge separated state despite the energetics of exciton splitting without electron acceptor at first seems energetically unfavorable: PTB7 has been estimated to have thermally inaccessible exciton binding energies of ~0.4 eV [42] or as low as ~0.2 eV [43] at low torsional angles.
PTB7 oligomers were designed with alternating benzodithiophene (in chain donor, D) and fluorinated thienothiophene (in chain acceptor, A) units in a (D-A)n-D arrangement, where n = 1–3.
A series of oligomers with the same alternating electron donor–acceptor block sequence as that of PTB7 was studied using ultrafast measurements to isolate and determine the effects of chain lengthening and aggregation on photophysics and kinetics.
Morphology of organic photovoltaic bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) – a nanoscale texture of the donor and acceptor phases – is one of the key factors influencing efficiency of organic solar cells.
Here we all-optically track the exciton harvesting dynamics in the fullerene acceptor phase from which subdivision of the fullerene domain sizes into the mixed phase (2–15 nm) and large (>50 nm) domains is readily obtained via the Monte-Carlo simulations.
A typical OSC relies on the ability of strongly-bound photogenerated Frenkel excitons to diffuse to the interface between donor- and acceptor-type materials which provide a driving energy for the exciton splitting3.
Eventually, this paradox has been triumphantly resolved by utilizing the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) donor-acceptor architecture8, which is the most widely used active layer for the OSCs nowadays.
BHJ is basically a nano-textured mixture of organic donor and acceptor materials.
Sub-10 nm spatial resolution, however, is not always easily achieved due to the typically low-contrast combinations of donor:acceptor materials used in organic photovoltaics.
Modern OSCs comprise high loadings of highly absorptive C70-based fullerene acceptors (up to 98%)25, which makes the fullerene absorption comparable or even higher than the absorption of the polymer.
Therefore, the averaged time needed for the exciton to reach the donor-acceptor interface is determined by the fullerene domain size.
The information about blend morphology can be extracted by excitation of the fullerene acceptor (e.g.
the polymer and fullerene phases are fully separated).This is consistent with the known property of the MDMO-PPV-based blends to form large fullerene domains above a certain acceptor weight fraction525354.
Significant differences of BHJ morphology in terms of formation of the mixed phase and the large (>50 nm) PC71BM domains have been observed for the blends with donor polymers of RRa-P3HT, MDMO-PPV, and RRe-P3HT.
In the case of modern low-bandgap donors, selective excitation of PC71BM is hardly achievable even in the blue where PC71BM absorption increases, and both donor and PC71BM PIA responses have to be considered.
As the excitons from donor phase dissociate at a 100-fs timescale404246506768, i.e.
significantly faster than any diffusion-delayed exciton dissociation, the donor PIA response can be considered as step-like function (for an example of such retrieval, see Supplementary Section 14).
In addition, transient anisotropy might be used as an extra contrast parameter to distinguish between the donor and acceptor PIA responses2647.
Overall, the proposed method constitutes a first step towards PIA spectroscopy as a tool that provides a valuable feedback on optimization of BHJ morphology and can be expanded to modern donor materials such as more efficient polymers14269 and small organic molecules397071.
In this work, we report the synthesis and photovoltaic properties of IEBICO-4F, IEHICO-4F, IOICO-4F, and IDICO-4F non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) bearing different types of alkyl chains (2-ehtylhexyl (EH), 2-ethylbutyl (EB), n-octyl (O), and n-decyl (D), respectively).
These NFAs are based on the central indacenodithiophene (IDT) donor core and the same terminal group of 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC-2F), albeit with different side chains appended to the thiophene bridge unit.
In general, an organic photoactive layer contains an appropriate p-type donor polymer and an n-type small-molecule acceptor [5,6,7].
Over the past few decades, fullerene derivatives were commonly used as n-type acceptors in OSCs because of their high electron affinity and isotropically good electron-transportation ability.
Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have been developed to overcome these limitations, and they have emerged as mainstream materials for fabricating OSCs.
High-performing NFAs generally possess an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A-D-A)-type structure.
Their energy levels and light harvesting ability from the UV-visible to near-infrared (NIR) can be tuned by changing the electron-donating core (D) units, alkyl side chains, and flanked acceptor (A) groups.
In the IRICO-4F molecule, 3-alkoxythiophene can lock ladder-type IDT donor aromatic units through intramolecular noncovalent interactions between the IDT thiophene S-atom and the alkoxy O-atom (S‧‧‧O) to form a planar structure.
The 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC-2F) acceptor is selected as the terminal electron-withdrawing group with the aim of creating a good electron transport channel through the close π–π stacking.
Moreover, the strong electronegativity of the fluorine atoms can enhance intramolecular charge transfer in the A-π-D-π-A-type acceptor and can reduce the optical bandgap, which is beneficial for enhancing the light-harvesting ability of the NFA molecule.
In thin-film absorption spectra, the IRICO-4F acceptors exhibit a narrow-bandgap of ~1.29 eV, with strong absorption in the 600–850 nm region, and a redshift of ~55 nm is observed compared to that of chloroform solution.
These four NFAs exhibited strong absorption bands in the range of 600–850 nm in chloroform solution, which can be ascribed to the intramolecular electron transfer transitions between the central IDT-core and the terminal IC-2F acceptor units.
These NFAs exhibited suitable energy levels and complementary absorption with the PTB7-Th donor polymer.
To study the influence of the different alkyl chains on photovoltaic device performance, we fabricated a series of OSC devices by using IRICO-4F acceptors with an inverted structure of indium tin oxide (ITO)/ZnO/active layer (PTB7-Th:IRICO-4F)/V2O5/Ag.
The PTB7-Th polymer was used as the donor material in this study because its energy levels and absorption properties are well matched with those of these NFAs.
When blended with several nonfullerene acceptors, such as TTPTT‐4F, O‐INIC3, EH‐INIC3, and Y6, the optimized fibril interpenetrating morphology can not only favor charge transport, but also inhibit the unfavorable molecular diffusion and aggregation in active layers, leading to excellent morphological stability.
Polymer solar cells (PSCs) consisting of a mixture of a conjugated polymer donor and a small molecule acceptor (SMA) have attracted considerable attention due to their unique advantages, such as light weight, low cost, and flexibility.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4  ] With the recent emergence of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs), the photovoltaic performance of PSCs undergoes a rapid improvement and the maximum power conversion efficiency (PCE) is already exceeding 16%.
[  5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 ,  9  ] To achieve high PCEs, suitable donor–acceptor phase separation with a bicontinuous network morphology should be formed in order to ensure efficient exction dissociation and charge transport.
The asymmetric TTPTTT‐4F was used as the acceptor.
All the PSCs show broad photoresponse from 300 to 850 nm with the same absorption edge induced by TTPTTT‐4F acceptor.
PiFM has emerged as an effective technology to reveal the phase domains of BHJ films by imaging at the characteristic IR absorption wave numbers corresponding to the donor and acceptor materials.
[  38 ,  39 ,  40 ,  41  ] Compared to the conventional AFM and TEM measurements, PiFM could clearly divide the phase region of the donor and the acceptor.
a–i) PiFM images of PBT1‐C‐2Cl:TTPTTT‐4F, PT2:TTPTTT‐4F, and PBT1‐C:TTPTTT‐4F blends based on IR absorption at different wave numbers, imaged at 1651 cm−1 for copolymer donors (a,d,g); imaged at 1538 cm−1 for the TTPTTT‐4F acceptor (b,e,h), and the combined images mapped at 1651 cm−1 and 1538 cm−1 (c,f,i).
We used a threshold to ensure the area fractions of the foreground (donor) and background (acceptor) is equal.
We carried out a medial axis transform to obtain the topological skeleton of the donor domains.
The topological skeleton is one‐pixel wide skeleton representation of the donor domain with the same connectivity of the original object.
Similarly, we can get the acceptor domain size.
Transient absorption (TA) spectroscopy was employed to investigate the effect of crystallinity and molecular packing of the donor copolymers on the charge generation and dynamics in their blends with the TTPTTT‐4F acceptor.
[  10 ,  43  ] The blend films of PBT1‐C‐2Cl, PT2, and PBT1‐C donors were excited at a pump wavelength of 550 nm where most of the photons were absorbed by the donors.
The spectra at early time scales represent the singlet excitons formed in the donor phase with a GSB around ≈2 eV and PIA at ≈1.2 eV as confirmed from the exciton spectra of the neat PT2 (Figure S16, Supporting Information).
This plot is obtained via the bilinear decomposition of the blend TA surfaces by applying the neat exciton spectra of the donor materials as spectral masks.
As per the plot, upon selectively exciting the donors, the charge growth is mostly associated with the exciton diffusion (see exciton kinetics Figure S18, Supporting Information) that peaks around 200 ps and then undergo recombination which can be explained by its higher crystallinity and thereby higher hole mobility that increases the probability of meeting of charge carriers in the donor phase.
We also notice that some charge pairs are generated promptly which is consistent with the interpenetrating nanoscale network formed between the donor fibril networks and the acceptor molecules.
The slow charge growth and the low fraction of prompt charges in the PBT1‐C‐2Cl:TTPTTT‐4F blend compared to the others is attributed to its larger fibril width and there by the large phase separation between the donor‐acceptor phases.
The mixed solutions of copolymers and NFAs such as TTTPTT‐4F, O‐INIC3, or EH‐INIC3 were prepared by dissolving polymer donors and NFAs in CB with a weight ratio of 1:1.2, and 0.25 vol% 1,8‐diiodooctane additive.
The active layers with an optimal thickness of 110 nm were generated by spin coating the mixed solutions of donor and acceptor, followed by thermal annealing at 100 °C for 10 min in a N2‐ filled glovebox.
The technique of PCD allows for the implied V oc to be calculated using the following equation:  (3) implied-Voc=kTqlnΔnΔn+NDni2 where Δn is the excess carrier density, n i is the intrinsic carrier concentration and N D is the effective bulk donor concentration.
This fact also supports the presence of Chl-a S form.28 Absence of β carbon (usually at 9.54 ppm) may be due to the deprotonation as a result of the interaction between severely distorted Chl-a with the surrounding polyacrylamide–NH2 which can act as proton acceptor or organic base resulting in deprotonated Chl-a assembly.
The steric crowding weakens the electron-pair donor properties (nucleophilicity) of the three carbonyl groups in the lower periphery and points out the presence of the chlorophyll 132 (S)-epimer, having different coordination and hydrogen-bonding properties from 132 (R)-chlorophyll (10.21d, J = 0.48), (10.2d, J = 1.92).
The robustness of this spin alignment against temperature as evident from MT curve in SQUID points to the spin–phonon coupling similar to the characteristic of organic donor–acceptor type ferroelectric spin Peierls system.32,33 The FF and external PCE of the PaaChl/electrode assembly were found to be 0.463 and 0.667% respectively [Table 2].
The quasi Fermi level of the electrons in the electron transport level (ETL, corresponding to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor) is denoted as EFE and the quasi Fermi level of the electrons in the hole transport level (HTL, corresponding to the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor) is denoted as EFH.
The model is based on mimicking the photoactive layer by a one-dimensional effective semiconductor with the ETL corresponding to the LUMO of the acceptor phase and the HTL to the HOMO of the donor phase22.
A variable offset between the LUMO levels of donor and acceptor was used, depicted in Fig.
The band gap of the donor was used to calculate the photogenerated current via  assuming full absorption of all photons of the AM1.5G spectrum with photon energies ℏω≥EG,abs, according to the Shockley–Queisser limit.
Figure 3b shows the results for equal band gaps of absorber and effective semiconductor, that is, no offset ΔLL between the LUMO levels of donor and acceptor (and of course also between their HOMO levels for excitons generated in the acceptor), while Fig.
Efficiencies beyond 25% are predicted only for zero offset, a condition that is rather unlikely to realize with organic donor–acceptor blends.
Herein, we have synthesized a small acceptor compound (TPDR) and have utilized for rational designing of non-fullerene chromophores (TPD1–TPD6) using end-capped manipulation in A2–A1–D–A1–A2 configuration.
FMO data exhibited that TPD5 had the least ΔE (1.71 eV) with highest maximum absorption (λmax) among all compounds due to the four cyano groups as the end-capped acceptor moieties.
These designed compounds with unique end group acceptors have the potential to be used as novel fabrication materials for energy devices.
OSCs are bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices where donor and acceptor moieties are mixed together in the absorption layer, where absorbance spectrum ideally should match the solar spectrum to make most of the falling sun light.
Furthermore, glass-forming small non-fullerene donor or acceptor materials creating interfacial layer show significant importance in the development of OSCs14–17.
Therefore, non-fullerene electron acceptors (NFAs) have gained attraction18 due to their remarkable visible region absorption, good solubility, better stability, easy tuning of energy levels and relative low cost19–21.
Literature is replete with solar cells based on small molecules having acceptors and donors arranged various geometries such as X-shaped donor molecule22, star molecule23 and linear geometric molecules24, etc.
One if the most successful arrangement, is D–\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\pi$$\end{document}π–A architecture, which allows transfer of electrons from donor (D) to acceptor (A) via π-bridge27–29.
Further, six novel molecules (TPD1–TPD6) are in-silico designed from TPDR by modifying end-capped acceptor units.
Herein we report absorption maxima (λmax), frontier molecular orbital (FMOs) and density of states (DOS) analysis, open-circuit voltage (Voc), reorganization energies and transition density matrix (TDM) of TPD1–TPD6 and have drawn comparison with the reference TPDR to evaluate the performance of end-capped acceptor units.
The terminal acceptor groups of TPDR were substituted sequentially with different acceptor unit as shown in Figure S1 to design efficient non-fullerene OSCs.
By replacing end-capped acceptors, six distinct derivatives namely TPD1, TPD2, TPD3, TPD4, TPD5 and TPD6 were obtained, their IUPAC names and two-dimensional (2D) structures are presented in Fig.
The end-capped acceptor units of TPDR has been replaced with powerful electron-withdrawing groups and subsequently, a reduction in band gap is observed in all the derivatives as seen in Table 1.
Overall, reduction in the bandgap is noted particularly in TDP3 where terminal acceptor unit is modified with 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile which leads to extended conjugation combined with the introduction of powerful electron-pulling units together lowers the Eg.
Even further decrease of Eg is observed in TPD4 and TPD5 at 1.96 and 1.71 eV, respectively where end-capped acceptors are changed to 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile and methyl 6-cyano-3-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-1-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5-carboxylate, respectively.
The electronic charge density for HOMO is located significantly over the central donor unit except the methyl groups and A1 unit in most of the designed chromophores.
Similarly, for LUMO charge density is concentrated dominantly over the acceptors (A1 and A2) and for a minor part on the central donor moiety (Fig. 4).
For DOS analysis, we have divided our compounds into three portions, which are Donor (core unit), Acceptor 1 (bridge) and Acceptor 2 (end-capped acceptor group) represented by blue, green and red lines, respectively in Fig. 5.
In the same way, donor contributes 68.0%, 68.3%, 68.5%, 68.1%, 77.9% and 69.2% to HOMO, and 12.0%, 11.8%, 12.1%, 10.4%, 3.6%, and 10.4% to LUMO for TPD1–TPD6, separately.
By these findings, it is examined from DOS graphs that the HOMOs are largely concentrated on donor as higher peak of blue color which is located nearly -5.6 eV.
The studied compounds are of A2–A1–D–A1–A2 type with different end-capped acceptors leading to differing optoelectronic responses.
This might be owing to the interaction of cyano unit on the terminal acceptor with chloroform which stabilized the molecule.
This confirms that the designed non-fullerene acceptor compounds (TPD1–TPD6) have enhanced optical properties than TPDR.
The cationic geometry displays the hole while anionic geometry shows the electron transportation towards acceptor from donor molecule.
Overall, investigations reveal that the λe results of all the entitled molecules except for the reference are smaller than λh results which specifies that all acceptors are fascinating candidates for the transfer of electrons.
A higher value of Voc can be attained whereas the LUMO level of the acceptor has a higher energy value and the HOMO of the donor has a lower value48.
In this study, the chief purpose of Voc is to arrange the HOMO of well-known donor compound J52Cl with the LUMO of the acceptor30.
In complex [J52Cl: TPD1–TPD6 ], designed molecules are used as acceptor materials while J52Cl is used as donor material which is recognized as a well-known polymeric natured compound and frequently utilized in the CT analysis30.
The effective charge density for HOMO is located at donor polymer J52Cl, whereas LUMO is concentrated over the terminal acceptor unit of TPDR and TPD1–TPD6 as displayed in Fig. 8.
This charge transfers from D to A provides a piece of information that all our designed derivatives may be used as an efficient acceptor compounds for OSC.Figure 8Charge transfer between \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{HOMO}}_{{{\mathbf{J}}52{\mathbf{Cl}}}}$$\end{document}HOMOJ52Cl and LUMO of investigated molecule (TPDR and TPD1–TPD6) drawn with the help of Avogadro software, Version 1.2.0.
The MPW1PW91/6-31G(d,p) level of theory was employed to estimate the behavior of transitions, essentially from the ground state (S0) to an excited state (S1) and interaction between donor and acceptor unit along with electron–hole localization.
For TDM analysis, we divided our molecules (TPDR and TPD1–TPD6) into three fragments namely; central core donor (D), acceptor-1 (A1) and terminal acceptor-2 (A2) and their pictographs are shown in Fig.
Interestingly, TPD5 yielded least ΔE value as 1.71 eV, where it is found 0.62 eV less than TPDR among designed compounds owing to the high electron withdrawing influence of end-capped acceptor cyano and ester groups with extended conjugation.
The mechanism is in good agreement with the previous reports27,43,44, which demonstrate that high-valent iodoplumbate species cause high-quality perovskite films by decreasing donor defects such as iodide vacancies.Figure 2(a) Energy stimuli applied to perovskite solutions and film photographs.
The resulting films from UV and 1-Sun precursor solutions have improved photocurrents as seen from C-AFM and solar cell performances due to reduced donor defects such as iodide vacancies from high-valent iodoplumbate species.
In this work, other polymers, PTB7, PBDB-T and PBDB-T-2F, as the donor materials, with INTIC as the acceptor, are selected to fabricate cells with the same structure to optimize their photovoltaic performance.
Fullerene derivatives are widely used as acceptor materials for organic solar cells because of their excellent electron transport property and easy to form good bulk heterojunctions with polymer or small molecular donors [8,9].
The constant design and improvement of donor materials by researchers, and the efficiency of the bulk heterojunction organic solar cells of the polymer-fullerene system, have reached more than 10% [10].
Even some small molecular materials have been gradually synthesized as new acceptors, in order to overcome these shortcomings.
Especially in the past three years, the research on non-fullerene acceptors based on the acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) structure have made breakthrough progress [5,18].
This means that INTIC is easily synthesized compared to other non-fullerene acceptors.
In our previous report, Poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluoro-thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl)] (PTB7-Th) was selected as the donor, INTIC as the acceptor, and the ITO/ZnO/PTB7-Th:INTIC/MoO3/Ag inverse device structure was adopted, and the maximum power conversion efficiency (PCE) was 7.27% after optimization [24].
In organic photovoltaic devices, the performance of the device varies greatly when the same acceptor is combined with different donors.
The open-circuit voltage (VOC) is determined by the HOMO (highest occupied molecular orbital) level of the donor and the LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) level of the acceptor according to the reference [27,28].
Through the selection of different donors, the acceptor can be matched with the donor with different LUMO and HOMO.
In addition, the energy barrier between the donor and acceptor will facilitate the carrier separation and block the carrier recombination to increase JSC and FF.
In this article, we continue to explore the INTIC system and choose different donors with different energy levels to fabricate organic photovoltaics (OPVs) and to improve the performance of devices based on INTIC as the acceptor.
It is proven that the LUMO barrier between the donor and the acceptor and the film morphology are very important to the carrier collection of OPVs, with INTIC as the acceptor.
The small-molecule acceptor INTIC was synthesized in this work.
The donor material PTB7(PTB7: Poly [[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]]) and PTB7-Th were purchased from 1-materials.
The donor PBDB-T(PBDB-T: Poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione)]) and PBDB-T-2F(PBDB-T-2F: Poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl-3-fluoro)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione)]) were obtained from Solarmer Materials Inc in Beijing, China.
Donor and acceptor were dissolved in chloroform (CF) at a ratio of 1:1.5, at a total concentration of 10 mg/mL.
In this work, PTB7-Th:INTIC based cell is used as a control device, other polymers PTB7, PBDB-T and PBDB-T-2F as the donors, with INTIC as the acceptor, are selected to fabricate cells with a same structure to optimize their photovoltaic performance.
When the donor is polymer PBDB-T, the device shows a remarkable high PCE of 10.655% with VOC of 0.847 V, JSC of 18.995 mA/cm2 and FF of 66.245%.
Scharber’s research group found that donor materials with different HOMO levels and fixed acceptor materials were used to make devices, and obtained the empirical formula for the VOC of organic solar cells:(1)VOC=1q(|EHOMO|−|ELUMO|)−0.3eV
Among them, EHOMO is the HOMO level of the donor material, ELUMO is the LUMO level of the acceptor, and 0.3 eV is the empirical value [29].
According to Equation (1), VOC of two cells with the same structure and modification will be same because of the closing HOMO level for two donors.
Generally, an organic solar cell does not form an ohmic contact between the acceptor material and the cathode, and an interface modification is required to change the work function, thereby forming an ohmic contact between the active layer and the cathode.
PTB7-Th, PBDB-T, PTB7 and PBDB-T-2F are selected as donors, respectively.
Additionally, it is concluded that the suitable donor is very important for the acceptor INTIC, a low cost and strong near-infrared absorption capacity acceptor, to fabricate cells with a high photovoltaic performance.
In this paper, we report efficient and stable OSCs based on an asymmetric non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) IPC-BEH-IC2F.
The NFA consists of a weak electron-donor core dithienothiophen[3,2-b]-pyrrolobenzothiadiazole (BEH) and two kinds of strong electron-acceptor (A) units [9H-indeno[1,2-b]pyrazine-2,3-dicarbonitrile (IPC) with a tricyclic fused system and 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC2F)].
These results demonstrate that asymmetric structural modifications of NFAs are an effective way for simultaneously improving the photovoltaic performance and stability of OSCs.A 9H-indeno[1,2-b]pyrazine-2,3-dicarbonitrile (IPC) moiety in asymmetric non-fullerene acceptors promotes the formation of a densely packed crystalline structure, enabling efficient and long-term stable organic solar cells.
PM6) have been developed since non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have been used as n-type materials in OSCs.10–12 Photoactive films based on PBDB-T derivatives and NFAs have shown high power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of over 15%.13 These polymers have important characteristics including complementary light absorption, a suitable alignment of their highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels with respect to those of NFAs, and an optimal degree of phase separation for forming a suitable morphology in the photoactive blend film.
Most efficient NFAs consist of a fused-ring central electron donor (D) core unit and two electron accepting end units (As) with an ADA structure.14 J. Yuan et al.
prepared an asymmetric IC2F-BEH-IC2F derivative of BTP-2F-ThCl with IC2F and ThCl acceptors.23 When BTP-2F-ThCl was paired with PM6, a PCE of 17.06% was achieved by the simultaneous increases in VOC and JSC compared to that of IC2F-BEH-IC2F molecules.
presented asymmetric BTIC-2Cl-γCF3 with a new γCF3 acceptor unit.
fabricated ternary OSCs by employing an n-type N2200 polymer acceptor as a third component into the PBDB-T:ITIC blend.
The ternary OSC retained 80% of the initial PCE after 1000 h of storage in air because the N2200 polymer acceptor generated a firm, interpenetrating network structure.36 Alternatively, the optimized photoactive blend morphology can be maintained by adding a solid additive.
Synthesis of non-fullerene acceptor molecules
Thermal properties of non-fullerene acceptors
Both the polymer donors and NFAs contribute to the photocurrent.
In summary, we designed and synthesised two NFAs (IPC-BEH-IC2F and IPC-BEH-IPC) by introducing IPC and IC2F as electron-acceptor units.
Singlet exciton diffusion was studied in the efficient organic photovoltaic electron donor material DTS(FBTTh2)2.
Three complementary time-resolved fluorescence measurements were performed: quenching in planar heterojunctions with an electron acceptor, exciton–exciton annihilation, and fluorescence depolarization.
The high exciton diffusion coefficient of the material leads to it being able to harvest excitons efficiently from large donor domains in bulk heterojunctions.
This is achieved by the use of an interface (the heterojunction) between two organic semiconductors—an electron donor and an electron acceptor.
Planar heterojunctions are fabricated by sequential deposition of donor and acceptor layers while bulk heterojunctions are made by blending donor and acceptor materials.
Excitons diffuse to a donor–acceptor interface where they dissociate into charge pairs.
The exciton diffusion length—the distance traveled by the exciton before it decays—is therefore a vital parameter in OPV devices, as it determines the maximum thickness of layers in planar heterojunctions and the maximum size of donor and acceptor domains in bulk heterojunctions which still give efficient charge generation.3,5,11−13
Bulk heterojunctions are commonly created with a conjugated polymer as an electron donor and a fullerene derivative as an electron acceptor.4 Recently, there has been a growing interest in the use of small molecules as donor materials due to their well-defined chemical structure, synthetic reproducibility, and their monodispersity.14−28 The best devices incorporating small molecules now achieve power conversion efficiencies greater than 10%.23,29 In the present work we have chosen to study singlet exciton diffusion in a widely studied benchmark OPV small molecule material 7,7′-(4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-silolo[3,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl)bis(6-fluoro-4-(5′-hexyl-[2,2′-bithiophen]-5-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole)—henceforth known as DTS(FBTTh2)2.
Solar cells with power conversion efficiencies of 8% have been reported using bulk heterojunctions of this molecule with the electron acceptor PC71BM.14,15,23,30,31
Microscopic images of DTS(FBTTh2)2 blends with fullerene derivatives which were measured using atomic force microscopy (AFM) or transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed the formation of wire-like donor domains which are more than 100 nm in length and 30–50 nm in width in blends prepared either with thermal annealing or with use of the additive 1,8-diiodooctane.14,27,28,32 A combination of neutron reflectometry and X-ray diffraction revealed a high density of small donor crystallites of ∼24 nm which are well-mixed with fullerenes in optimized blends.28 Optimization through processing dramatically improves the efficiency of devices; the power conversion efficiency increased from 1.8% to 5.8% upon thermal annealing and to 8% when adding small amounts of 1,8-diiodooctane and of high-molecular-weight polymer polystyrene which improves the film quality and blend morphology for charge extraction.
After that DTS(FBTTh2)2 was spin-coated at 1000 rpm on top of the cross-linked PCBSD layer from solution in chlorobenzene with concentrations ranging from 2 to 6 mg/mL to form donor films of thicknesses ranging between 17 and 67 nm, with the thicknesses being measured using variable angle spectroscopic ellipsometry (VASE).
The diffusion coefficient we obtain for annealed DTS(FBTTh2)2 is higher than reported values for many other organic semiconductors, such as (1–9) × 10–4 cm2 s–1 measured for diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)-based small molecules,40,41 and 1 × 10–4 cm2 s–1 for the efficient polymer donor PCDTBT.38 The diffusion coefficient measured for as-cast DTS(FBTTh2)2 (before annealing) is comparable to that of P3HT, which is also a semicrystalline material.11,12,42
As the donor molecules used in this study form elongated fibrous domains in photovoltaic blends with fullerenes, the excitons will find electron acceptors at the walls of these fibers; hence, only diffusion in the direction perpendicular to the fiber walls will result in charge generation.14 Therefore, exciton harvesting is determined by two-dimensional diffusion.
It implies efficient exciton harvesting from large donor domains in optimized morphologies and shows the high tolerance of this material to the domain size for efficient charge generation.
Overall, we conclude that thermal annealing leads to higher average diffusivity and longer exciton diffusion lengths in DTS(FBTTh2)2 which allows excitons to diffuse further and provides efficient charge generation from large donor domains in bulk heterojunctions.
The donor and acceptors in the bulk heterojunction are mixed in a mass ratio of 1 : 1.
Under UV light excitation of various wavelengths, the EuPt chains exhibits exclusively the sharp emission peaks assigned to EuIII which clearly indicates the efficient dual acceptor–donor intramolecular energy transfer from both terpy ligand and [PtII(CN)4]2− ions to 4f metal centre (Figure 4b) [81].
The similar dual donor intramolecular energy transfer related to the direct coordination of the organic ligand and hexacyanidometallate to 4f metal was presented for almost linear [YbIII(3-pyone)2(H2O)2][CoIII(CN)6] (3-pyone = 3-pyridone) chains (Figure 6b) [100].
Thus, various optical functionalities were achieved, as exemplified by white light emission of DyIII–CoIII compound, excitation- and composition-switchable multi-coloured emission in EuIII–TbIII–CoIII chains, and dual-donor NIR emission in NdIII–CrIII and YbIII–CoIII networks.
These triads were characterised and used as donor materials in small molecule, solution processable organic solar cells.
Both triads were blended with PC71BM as an acceptor in different ratios by wt % and their photovoltaic properties were studied.
In these devices, the conjugated polymer acts as an electron donor and a soluble fullerene, most commonly phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), as the electron acceptor [4–9].
However, there is growing interest in the use of small molecules as donor materials in OPVs [10–17].
Interestingly, a small molecule based on a DPP core substituted with electron-withdrawing units was also used as an acceptor in OPVs as a substitute for fullerene with PCEs of 1% when combined with poly(3-hexylthiophene) [30–31].
The film formation stabilises significantly the HOMO level of both triads (see Table 1), presumably through the interaction of the donor components of the molecules with the corresponding acceptor units via aggregates.
The BODIPY units act as a stronger acceptor than the DPP core, causing the overall electrostatic potential charge of the DPP-oligothiophene unit to be positive.
Thin films of compound 9 and 10 have favourable absorption when used as a donor for organic photovoltaic applications, absorbing in the region 500–700 nm (Figure S1, Supporting Information File 1).
PC71BM, which absorbs in the range 300–500 nm, was used as an acceptor with these compounds as it gives favourable energy level matching for efficient devices.
Spin-coated films of the donor and acceptor blend allows excellent absorption from 300–700 nm.
A common technique to optimise morphology is to vary the donor/acceptor ratio.
A screening of various donor/acceptor ratios revealed that the most promising performance was evident with the ratio 1:3 (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information File 1).
As the concentration of the acceptor is increased from 2:1 to 1:3 an increase in short-circuit current (Jsc), open circuit voltage (Voc) and fill factor (FF) was observed.
With further increase in the concentration of the acceptor to 1:4 we observed a decrease in Jsc, Voc and FF.
Larger concentrations of the acceptor in the active layer enhance absorption in the region 300–500 nm (Figure S3, Supporting Information File 1).
A favourable dark current is observed with 9:PC71BM when compared with 10:PC71BM (Figure 10) for the same donor acceptor concentration ratio.
Firstly, 10:PC71BM when compared with 9:PC71BM has a shallow HOMO and the theoretical maximum Voc out of a device is defined as the energy difference between the LUMO of the acceptor and the HOMO of the donor.
However, other parameters such as good alignment of HOMO–LUMO levels with the acceptor material is also vital for efficient photovoltaic devices.
Films containing various donor (9 and 10)/acceptor ratios (1:2, 1:3 and 1:4) were spin-coated from a 20 mg mL−1 chlorobenzene solution.
[6,6]-Phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) from Solenne B. V. Company was used as the acceptor.
Building on our recent successful encapsulation of PSI in the metal–organic framework ZIF-8, herein we use the zinc and imidazole cations from this precursor to form charge transfer complexes with an extremely strong organic electron acceptor, TCNQ.
TCNQ (7,7,8,8-tetracyanoquinodimethane) is well known as an extremely strong organic electron acceptor, with an electron affinity of 2.88 eV,32 and its anion TCNQ− is known to rapidly form stable charge transfer salts with almost any cation, whether metallic33 or organic34,35 in nature.
Maxim et al.17 proved that efficient exciton-to-charge conversion could occur in star-shaped molecules films without an external acceptor.
In the model semicrystalline system of Collins’ group study, decreasing the mixed-phase interface between pure polymer donor and pure acceptor domains has little effect on the efficiency of charge transfer (CT) state formation, but instead, dramatically increases the efficiency of CT state separation18.
reported a novel conjugated polymer PDTSDTBT consisting of a donor unit with a tetrahedral Si (sp3) named DTS and an acceptor unit named DTBT with branched side chains [51].
Organic solar cells (OSC) consisting of conjugated polymers or small molecules (constituting a mixture of donors) with fullerene derivatives (acting as acceptors) attract special attention due to their unique properties, such as relatively light weight, low production cost, and the possibility of producing large elastic surface.
The appropriate energy levels of the HOMO and the LUMO not only significantly facilitate exciton dissociation at the donor/acceptor interface, but also generate higher open-circuit voltage (Voc) of OSC devices [57,62].
Therefore, in recent years, a great deal of effort has gone into developing non-fullerene acceptors that combine good stability, easy synthesis, strong visible and near-infrared absorption, and the ability to adjust energy levels.
The use of polymer donors having complementary absorption spectra with non-fullerene acceptors resulted in the PCE levels of 10–14% often reported [58,63,64].
Newly synthesized polymers were also tried as donor materials in polymer solar cells, all of which exhibited high open-circuit voltage above 1.0 V. The final power conversion efficiency was in the range of 1.16–3.29% with appropriately adjusted monomer proportions [57].
Newly synthesized polymers were assessed as donor materials in OSC, all of which showed a high open-circuit voltage of about 1.0 V. The branched modified 3,7-dimethyloctane polymer showed the best performance at a PCE of 2.66% [67].
Y. Zhao and co-workers designed and synthesized two new copolymers combining dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]silole as the donor unit and thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6-dione as the acceptor unit (Scheme 18).
designed and synthesized two new small molecules of the acceptor–donor–acceptor DINDTS and DINDCNDTS containing dithienosilole as the base unit and 1,3-indanedione (IN) or a malononitrile derivative as closed-end groups (Scheme 19).
A similar donor–acceptor–donor system using 2,6-(4,4-bis-(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b;3,4-b′]dithiophene (DTC) and (4,4′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]silole) (DTS) as a central building unit and 3-ethyl-rhodanine as closed-end groups was designed and synthesized by W. Ni and co-workers (Scheme 20).
The introduction of the alkyl chain into the π-bridge causes a significant increase in the dihedral angle between the mote and the donor unit, which may ultimately affect the value of the maximum energy conversion efficiency.
compared three dimethyltetraphenylsiloles with symmetrically substituted acceptor or donor moieties (Scheme 25).
designed two conjugated donor–acceptor π polymers with 4,4′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-5,5′-bis(trimethyltin)dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]silole as donor and isodiketopyrrolo-pyrrole or isodithioketopyrrol-pyrrole as acceptor moiety (Scheme 26).
The DSS modified in this way was copolymerized with a diketopyrrolopyrrole acceptor (DPP), as a result of which a donor–acceptor copolymer was obtained.
In this context, the silicon atom present in the structure of organosilicon compounds breaks the coupling between various building blocks so that the donor molecular orbitals do not overlap with the acceptor molecular orbitals (charge separation), while ensuring targeted charge transport between the donor and acceptor moieties [102,103].
The width of the energy gap (Eg = 4.2 eV) and the possibility of attaching a coupled silyl–aryl core and electron–donor and electron–acceptor systems to σ–π allow obtaining a material with ambipolar properties, which can be easily modified [104].
In addition, the sp3 silicon atom present in the structure of the silane compounds breaks the coupling between the different building blocks, while ensuring targeted charge transport between the donor and acceptor moieties.
Moreover, the introduction of the alkyl chain into the π bridge causes a significant increase in the dihedral angle between them and the donor unit, which may ultimately affect the value of the maximum energy conversion efficiency in the OPV.
Five new non-fullerene donor molecules were designed keeping in view the excellent donor properties of 3-bis(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-thiophen-2-yl)-5,7-bis(2ethylhexyl) benzo[1,2-:4,5-c′]-dithiophene-4,8-dione thiophene-alkoxy benzene-thiophene indenedione (BDD-IN) by end-capped modifications.
Moreover, insight from the frontier molecular orbital (FMO) analysis disclosed that central acceptors are responsible for the charge transformation.
The designed molecules were found with higher λmax values and lower transition energies than BDD-IN molecule due to stronger end-capped acceptors.
Open circuit voltage (Voc) was observed in the higher range (1.54–1.78 V) in accordance with HOMOdonor–LUMOPC61BM by designed compounds when compared with BDD-IN (1.28 V).
Small molecules having A-π-D-π-A type architecture incorporating two end-capped electron withdrawing units, two π bridges that interconnect the end terminal acceptor units with central core electron-donating unit offer exceptional photovoltaic performance (whether utilized as acceptors or donors) as compared to other donor–acceptor (D-A) types of small molecules14–16.
in 2017 confirmed the well matched working of highly efficient donor material DR3TBDTT (DR3) with non-fullerene acceptors19.
Hou’s groups suggested the new wide band gap donor that incorporates a two-dimensional trialkylthienyl-substituted benzodithiophene core building for efficient non-fullerene small molecule OSCs20.
It has been demonstrated that LUMO level of acceptor materials and HOMO level of donor materials govern the open-circuit voltage (Voc) values9,10.
Former research specifies that these LUMO and HOMO energy levels in turn depend on the electron accepting and donating capabilities of the acceptor and donor counterparts21.
Thus, it can be predicted that by enhancing electron-accepting ability of entire molecule, superior Voc could be attained when the small molecule is used as the donor materials.
Small molecule donors were developed by Adhikari et al.
to replace the usual polymer donors used in solvent processed solar cells, like the molecular glasses22 or the T-Shaped Indan-1,3-dione derivatives23.
The BDD is a planar group enriched with electron-withdrawing capability and therefore extensively utilized for making alternate copolymer donor materials of D-A type24.
described the synthesis of efficient small molecule donor BDD-IN of Acceptor2-π-Acceptor1-π-Acceptor2 (A2-π-A1-π-A2) sort incorporating of central unit BDD, thiophene-alkoxy benzene-thiophene to acts as the π-spacer, and indenedione as a terminal end-capped unit (A2) that showed 8.70% PCE with open circuit voltage to be 0.965 V26.
In this manuscript, this end-capped modification strategy is utilized on A2-π-A1-π-A2 type BDD-IN (dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]pyran) molecule26 and five new molecules comprising of different terminal end-capped acceptor units have been designed (Fig. 1).
These new non-fullerene donors (NFDs) are predicted to have improved optoelectronic properties and potential to be used in the next generation of solar cells.Figure 1Structures of reference and designed compounds.
The BDD-IN is composed of two indenedione (IN) terminal acceptor units (A2).
These terminal acceptor units A2 are attached to central core unit BDD (A1) through a π-bridge (thiophene-alkoxy benzene-thiophene) units.
Terminal acceptor unit (A2) indenedione (IN) of BDD-IN is modified by different highly efficient end-capped acceptors like 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile, 2-(5,6-dichloro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile, 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile, 2-(4,5,6-trifluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile,2-(4,5,6-trichloro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile.
The charge carrier mobility of designed donor molecules can be improved through conjugation due to the electronic delocalization within the molecular systems.
Conversely, HOMO–LUMO values in BDD-IN were found greater as compared to the corresponding value of designed structures that predicts the lesser efficiency than the end-caped acceptors of all designed compounds.
Moreover, in DMDC, the HOMO–LUMO energy levels are stable than DDHF and DMDH, which designate the significant proficiency of end-caped acceptor moieties.
Furthermore, HOMO–LUMO values of DDTF and DDTC were observed to be larger than DDHF and DMDH values due to the end-caped acceptors of DDTF and DDTC, respectively.
Among designed and the reference compounds, DMDC exhibits the lowest energy gap value which could be attributed to the combined effect of extended conjugation and on better electron withdrawing effect of the four terminal cyano units present in end-capped acceptor of DMDC as compared to other compounds.
4, the HOMO charge is propagated on the central accepter moiety and a little amount of charge is observed on the π-spacer, whereas LUMO is dispersed on the end-capped acceptor units of the studied compounds.
This charge dispersion patterns show that occurrence of electrons delocalization is caused by high donor to acceptor charge transfer with the aid of π-bridging unit.
In BDD-IN, the HOMO charge density is occupied primarily on central acceptor part (A1) and π-spacer, while the LUMO is occupied completely on whole molecule except upper part of the central acceptor unit (A1) and half portion of the end-caped acceptor (A2).
The HOMO charge density is completely distributed on the central acceptor part (A1) and π-spacer unit and the LUMO is distributed completely on the end-capped acceptor units A2.
Overall, these charge density circulation patterns reveal that electron delocalization is happened and huge charge transferred from the central acceptor part (A1) to end-capped acceptor units A2 with the assistance of the bridge part occurred.Figure 5Graphical representation of the density of states (DOS) for BDD-IN, DDHF-DDTC drawn by utilizing PyMOlyze 1.1 version (https://sourceforge.net/projects/pymolyze/).
The strong electron withdrawing capability of four F atoms and four CN groups present in end-capped unit of the compound DDHF successfully caused the red shift to \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{max}}}}$$\end{document}λmax value to 666 nm which confirms the utility of DDHF end-capped acceptor as compared to other end-capped acceptors of BDD-IN molecule which lack F and CN groups.
Replacement of four fluorine with chlorine atoms in the end-capped acceptor of DDHF converts it to the compound DMDH.
These results confirmed the superiority of DMDC end-capped acceptor containing CN units over all other compounds.
The anionic and cationic geometries indicate the transformation of electron and hole towards acceptor from the donor molecule.
Due to cyano groups modification in DMDC, least value of electron reorganization energy was found to be 0.00285 Eh among all the studied compounds indicating the best efficiency of cyano groups as compared to other functional groups present in terminal acceptors.
Voc is approximately proportional to \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\Delta {\text{E}}$$\end{document}ΔE of donor and acceptor molecules corresponding to HOMOdonor–LUMOPC61BM energies.
In the current quantum chemical evaluation, Voc values are calculated by utilizing acceptor molecule (PC61BM).
The HOMO energy levels of the studied molecules in comparison with LUMO energy level of well-known acceptor material PC61BM are shown in Fig.
The Voc value for compound BDD-IN with regards to HOMOdonor–LUMOPC61BM energy difference is calculated to be 1.28 V, while designed compounds with \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$ {\text{LUMO}}_{{{\text{PC}}61{\text{BM}}}}$$\end{document}LUMOPC61BM energy difference shows higher Voc values of 1.54, 1.57, 1.78, 1.56 and 1.58 V, correspondingly in comparison to the BDD-IN molecule.
This investigation proves that all designed molecules DDHF-DDTC have the potential to be suitable materials for OSCs applications when blended with well-known acceptor polymer PC61BM.
In the charge transfer (CT) investigations, a complex is established between DMDC and well-known acceptor polymeric materials, in this study we are using PC61BM.
The interactions between donor molecule DMDC and acceptor polymeric material PC61BM interact at various points, C3 and polymer sides are parallel.
Whereas functional group side of PC61BM is positioned to the end-capped acceptor of DMDC, whereas ball side of PC61BM points toward the core side of the DMDC molecule (Fig.
8).Figure 8Graphical representation of optimized geometry of DMDC: PC61BM and Charge transfer between \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{HOMO}}_{{{\text{donor}}}}$$\end{document}HOMOdonor to \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{LUMO}}_{{{\text{PC}}61{\text{BM}}}}$$\end{document}LUMOPC61BM.These exhibits are prepared with the help of GaussView 5.0 and Gaussian 09 version D.01 (https://gaussian.com/g09citation/).
Graphical representation of optimized geometry of DMDC: PC61BM and Charge transfer between \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{HOMO}}_{{{\text{donor}}}}$$\end{document}HOMOdonor to \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{LUMO}}_{{{\text{PC}}61{\text{BM}}}}$$\end{document}LUMOPC61BM.These exhibits are prepared with the help of GaussView 5.0 and Gaussian 09 version D.01 (https://gaussian.com/g09citation/).
Dipole moment of the complex largely comes from DMDC to the acceptor and acts as the cause for effective exciton dissociation at the DMDC: PC61BM boundary48–50.
The HOMO charge concentration in DMDC: PC61BM complex is concentrated on the central part and in part on the π-spacer of the donor DMDC molecule (Fig.
For the determination of these properties, we distributed our studied molecules into three parts namely, acceptor-1 (A1), π-bridge (B) and acceptor-2 (A2).Figure 9Graphical representation of transition density matrix (TDM) at the S1 state.
Similarly, in case of all the designed molecules a major portion of charge is present on the end-capped acceptor A2, while in case of reference molecule BDD-IN, a minute portion is seen on A2.
The electron coherence in designed molecules display similar trend that is, majorly present on the π-bridge segment B and end-capped acceptor A2, while a minute portion is present on A1.
9, the electron coherence of BDD-IN, DDHF-DDTC confirm that the electrons are successfully transferred from the central acceptor A1 to the π-bridge and lastly the electron charge concentration moves to the electron acceptors.
Moreover, the coefficient of interaction between donor and acceptor groups are in order of BDD-IN > DMDH > DDHF > DDTF > DDTC > DMDC.
A series of new non-fullerene donors (DDHF-DDTC) are designed keeping in view a synthesized non-fullerene-based electron donor molecule (BDD-IN) with Acceptor-π-Acceptor-π-Acceptor (A-π-A-π-A) configuration using different end-capped electron accepting groups.
Interestingly, DMDC exhibited the smaller energy difference of 2.17 eV value which is obtained less in magnitude than designed molecules as well as BDD-IN molecule due to the strong electron withdrawing effect of the end-capped acceptor.
Finally, among all DDHF-DDTC, the designed molecule DMDC presented exceptional optoelectronic properties because of the strong electron withdrawing effect of the end-capped acceptor tetra-cyano combined with extended conjugation.
Overall, DDHF-DDTC are appropriate donor moieties for their usage in the OSCs applications.
One promising way to solve these problems is to dope the surfaces of electrodes with donors or acceptors, through co-sputtering [18], ion implantation [19], or optical excitation [20], during the fabrication process.
Density functional theory (DFT) studies as well as experimental measurements suggested that upon substitution of the acceptor with fluorine, both the HOMO and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels of the resulting polymer, P2, were lowered, leading to a higher open circuit voltage and short circuit current with an overall improvement of more than 110% for the photovoltaic devices.
The introduction of an interpenetrating donor and acceptor architecture in the active layer of the OPV devices led to a new type of device, the so-called bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells, with improved power-conversion efficiency (PCE) [2–4].
A large number of polymer semiconducting materials of donor–acceptor–donor (D–A–D) architecture have been synthesized and used in OPV devices recently reaching remarkable PCEs of up to 11.7% [5–7].
The properties of D–A–D-type materials such as band gap, structural planarity, charge carrier transport, etc., can be easily tailored by careful selection, combination, and position of the donor and acceptor moieties.
However, these are not the only parameters to consider for the design of a new donor polymer system.
In OPV devices, a bicontinuous layer of a donor and an acceptor material is sandwiched between two electrodes.
After the absorption of light, excitons are generated which dissociate towards the interface of the donor–acceptor layer and are separated into free carriers.
The driving force for this charge separation originates from the energy offset between the frontier molecular energy levels of the donor and acceptor material, broadly known as the binding energy [15].
This will result in the reduced formation of the desired bicontinuous morphology with the acceptor [16].
Furthermore, the modification of π-bridges between the donor and acceptor unit of p-type molecules plays a significant role in increasing the efficiency for OPVs [30–31].
Herein, keeping all these criteria in mind, we endeavored to obtain a series of low band gap polymers, P1, P2, and P3, with matching HOMO–LUMO energy levels with the acceptor moiety, without sacrificing the planarity of the molecule.
Benzothiadiazole and fluorene, which are commonly used moieties in D–A–D-type polymers, have been chosen as the acceptor and donor, respectively [35–36].
The acceptor motif was further coupled with thiophene to increase the conjugation length and absorption.
The same acceptor moiety was substituted with fluorine and the effect of this substitution on the polymeric and photovoltaic properties was studied.
For the synthesis of polymers with alternating donor–acceptor–donor architecture, suitable monomers were first prepared (Scheme 1).
Thus, the brominated acceptor moieties M1–M3 were reacted with 9,9-dihexylfluorene-2,7-diboronic acid bis(1,3-propanediol)ester under Suzuki coupling reaction conditions in the presence of sodium bicarbonate solution with tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0) and tri-o-tolylphosphine as the catalyst (Scheme 2).
The HOMO orbitals show a good delocalization of charge along the polymer backbone, while the LUMO orbitals are localized at the acceptor moieties.
Also, the reduction of the HOMO levels will further increase the open circuit voltage (Voc), since it is calculated from the difference of HOMO–LUMO energy levels of the donor and acceptor.
The intensity of the ICT band of P1 and P3 is less than that of the π–π* transition band, whereas in P2, the ICT band is more pronounced due to the increased charge separation in the D–A–D polymer backbone due to the electronegative fluorine substituents in the acceptor moiety.
Photoluminescence (PL) quenching studies were performed with pure donor polymers and with different ratios (by weight) of polymers with PC70BM ([6,6]-phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester) as an acceptor to evaluate the suitability of the polymers for photovoltaic devices.
A significant reduction in the PL emission intensity of the donor when mixed with an acceptor is a good indication of an efficient charge transfer between the donor and acceptor when excited at the wavelength of the absorption maximum of the donor.
An efficient charge transfer between donor and acceptor is essential for good solar cell devices.
Next, we fabricated OPVs based on bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells of polymers P1, P2 and P3 and tested them with PC70BM as an acceptor.
For optimum performance of an OPV device, the phase-separated donor and acceptor domain sizes should be twice the exciton diffusion length, which is typically of the order of 7–12 nm.
From the images, a well-spaced, uniform phase contrast of donor polymer and acceptor was observed, indicating the uniform spatial distribution of the polymer:PC70BM in the matrix for all three polymers.
External quantum efficiency spectra of optimized devices fabricated with polymers P1, P2 and P3 and PC70BM as an acceptor.
The larger derivatives were tested as acceptors in bulk‐heterojunction photovoltaic devices with a maximum power conversion efficiency of up to 1.6 %.
Let's twist again: Simple condensation reactions with a spiro‐fused bis‐quinone furnishes amorphous azaacene dimers applicable as acceptors in organic photovoltaics (see graphic).
Azaacenes are tailor‐made and electronically modulated by substitution, yet their strong tendency to π‐stack results in crystalline domains in the solid‐state and has hindered their widespread use as active layer acceptors in bulk‐heterojunction OPV.
Balancing acceptor character, charge transport and aggregation/morphology is challenging, but can be resolved for azaacenes either by incorporation of morphology‐dominating units, such as iptycenes4a which also enhance solubility10 or even simple oligomer formation,11 for example, the azaphene‐dimer shown in Figure 1.5c
We demonstrate their use as acceptor materials in proof‐of‐concept OPVs.
Compounds 3 c–e were investigated as acceptors in organic bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells employing an inverted architecture as depicted in Figure 6 a.
The organic polymer poly({4,8‐bis[(2‐ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithio‐phene‐2,6‐diyl}{3‐fluoro‐2‐[(2‐ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4‐b]thio‐phenediyl}) (PTB7) was used as a donor in all devices.
Figure 6 c shows the external quantum efficiency for devices with each acceptor compound.
The features below 500 nm indicate that the acceptor contributes to the photocurrent generation since the donor PTB7 absorbs far more weakly in this spectral range.
In Figure 6 d the J–V curves for the optimal devices of PTB7 with each of the acceptor molecules are depicted.
Schematic representation of photovoltaic device structure (a) and chemical structures of donor PTB7 poly({4,8‐bis[(2‐ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl}{3‐fluoro‐2‐[(2‐ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4‐b]‐thiophenediyl} and acceptor materials 3 c–e (b).
External quantum efficiency of devices with different acceptor materials (c) and current–voltage characteristics of optimal devices (d).
Photovoltaic parameter statistics of solar cells fabricated by using 3 c–e as acceptors with PTB7 as the donor.
Electron‐accepting 3 c–e were investigated as acceptors in BHJ photovoltaic devices yielding—without extensive optimization—a maximum power conversion efficiency of about 1.6 %.
Our results demonstrate the potential of the examined compounds as acceptors in BHJ solar cells.
For the active layer PTB7 (Purchased from 1‐Material Inc) and the acceptor molecules were separately dissolved in 10 mg mL−1 chlorobenzene adding 1 % 1,8‐diiodooctane.
Donor and acceptors were mixed in a 1:1 volume ratio.
OPVs with bulk heterojunction (BHJ) using prototypical donor and acceptor materials, poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1–2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl] = hieno [3–4-b]thiophenediyl]] (PTB7) and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), were fabricated.
High power conversion efficiency (PCE) has been achieved using bulk heterojunction (BHJ), a mixture of donor and acceptor organic semiconducting materials [1].
Recently, the PCE of OPVs has been remarkably improved (∼14%) [2], mainly because of the development of non-fullerene electron acceptors [3].
PTB7 acts as the electron donor while PC71BM acts as the electron acceptor.
SBDT3 has the lowest binding energy (1.51 eV in chloroform solvent) ensuring easier and faster dissociation of excitons to produce free charge-carriers and has the highest open-circuit voltage (2.46 eV) with PC61BM as the acceptor.
In OSCs, the electron donor–acceptor bilayer of organic molecules was employed as an active layer.
Huang and co-workers employed a BHJ of polymer (donor)/fullerene (acceptor) blends as an active layer in OSCs.
Zhang and co-workers used an active layer containing a BHJ of a polymer (donor)/polymer (acceptor) blend and achieved an improved PCE.8,9 Traditionally, a polymer-conjugated donor was paired with fullerene acceptor molecules such as PC61BM and PC71BM and attained a PCE of up to 11%, which is ascribed to good device fabrication and innovative donor materials.10 The PCE of fullerene-based OSCs failed to expand because of the inherent constraints in fullerene acceptors such as weak light-harvesting ability in the UV–visible region, fewer chances of remodeling of the molecule for tuning the energy levels, and high sensitivity to light and oxygen.11−17 Therefore, other molecules were explored as acceptor molecules in place of fullerenes that include perylene diimide derivatives,18 rylene diimide,19 and others.
Fused ring electron acceptors are being extensively studied because of advantages such as the ability to tune energy levels, stronger absorption in the UV–visible region, and greater thermal stability.20,21
Small-molecule donors are preferable to polymer donors possessing a well-defined structure, easier purification, and perfect batch-to-batch replicability, and these are important parameters in the commercialization of all-small-molecule organic SCs (ASM-OSCs).
For achieving a higher PCE of ASM-OSCs, several criteria should be met such as the complementary absorption of donors and acceptors, a well-optimized structure of the blended film, and matched molecular energy levels of donors with that of acceptors.
There is an immediate need to optimize the optoelectronic properties of donors and acceptors to enhance the PCE of ASM-OSCs.
End-group functionalization, side-chain engineering, central core modification, and π-bridge insertion are various techniques for the remodeling of small molecules.22,23 A computational study of spectral, structural, and electronic properties of molecules provides an alternative approach to the experimental method to explore the potential of different molecules for commercial use as a photovoltaic material.24 In 2018, Huo and co-workers have developed an excellent small-molecule donor named SBDT-BDD exhibiting a unique dual-accepting unit A1–A2–D–A2–A1 structure.
This dual-accepting unit donor design has been proved a promising design to increase the PCE of ASM-OSCs by enhancing the JSC and FF.
This medium band gap small-molecule donor has reported a PCE of 9.2% for the SBDT-BDD:IDIC blend binary device and 10.9% for the SBDT-BDD:IDIC:PC71BM ternary device.25−27
SBDT-BDD is taken as the reference molecule, it contains alkylthio-substituted benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b]dithiophene (BDT) as a central donor moiety(D), two BDD (1,3-bis(thiophen-2-yl)-5,7-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo-[1,2-c:4,5-c]dithiophene-4,8-dione) units as acceptor moieties (A2), and two 3-ethylrhodanine dye units as terminal acceptor moieties (A1), all the constituent units being connected through thiophene bridges.28 Four new molecules are designed by substituting the acceptors of SBDT-BDD with four electron-withdrawing acceptor groups29−31 that are already reported to enhance the optical properties by enhancing the conjugation resulting in a better charge distribution.
These new donor molecules are expected to improve the PCE of ASM-OSCs.
The terminal acceptor A1 in SBDT-BDD was substituted with 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malanonitrile in SBDT3.
SBDT4 was designed by replacing both acceptors (A1 and A2) in reference molecule with benzo[c][1,2,5]thiazole and thiophene moieties at both ends.
The chemical structures of designed molecules and the reference molecule are displayed in Figure 2 in which the central BDT core, thiophene bridges, and acceptor moieties are highlighted in blue, red, and black colors, respectively.
In SBDT-BDD and SBDT1-SBDT3 at the ground state, the electron density is spread mainly on the BDT core, alkylthio substitution along with adjacent thiophene moieties and slightly on acceptor A2 (BDD or benzothiazole), while in the excited state the electron density is shifted to terminal acceptors (A1) along with thiophene bridges between the acceptors and more on A2 acceptors.
In SBDT4, HOMO has the electron density uniformly spread all over the molecule, while LUMO has the electron density mainly on acceptor sections and thiophenes.
LUMO in SBDT1 is most stable due to the joint effect of extended conjugation and strong electron-withdrawing abilities of benzothiazole acceptors as well as terminal electron acceptors containing a benzene ring, two cyano groups, and two high electronegative fluorine atoms.
SBDT1 has the lowest value of HOMO–LUMO gap attributed to the stabilized LUMO of the molecule because of its stronger end-capped electron acceptors at terminals containing diflouro benzene and efficient benzothiazole acceptors that mutually extend conjugation ultimately resulting in a narrowing band gap.
SBDT2 and SBDT3 have band gaps still lower than that of the reference molecule that correspond to the benzoid rings of end-capped acceptors.
Absorption maxima, like the band gap, is greatly influenced by extended conjugation and the electron-withdrawing effect of acceptor moieties.
All chromophores showed a red-shifted λmax value except SBDT4 that exhibited an overlapping absorption profile (apart from the shoulder peak in the range of 250–400 nm) with the reference SBDT-BDD molecule on account of acceptor moieties of equivalent strengths; besides, both molecules have equivalent band gaps.
SBDT1 showed the largest bathochromic shift among all the designed molecules due to its strong electron-accepting constituents, the benzothiazole acceptor and the terminal electron acceptor containing a benzene ring in conjugation with cyanide, ester, and fluorine atoms.
The molecules are divided into three fragments to understand their individual contribution toward the total electron density, viz, the donor, the bridge and the acceptor.
In DOS plots, the black line indicates the total absorption (total DOS) of the whole molecule, while the red, green, and blue lines indicate the individual contribution (partial DOS) of the acceptor, bridge, and donor core fragments, respectively, toward total absorption.24 The peaks of the plot varies from reference to designed molecules due to the fact that all chromophoric molecules have different acceptor groups of varying strength and conjugation.
In SBDT-BDD, an acceptor has a major contribution in the HOMO and LUMO, while the bridge and the donor have comparatively less contribution.
In SBDT1–SBDT3, the contribution of acceptor moieties is greater than that of the donor and the bridge in the ground state, but acceptors have more prominent peaks at the excited state, as indicated by the well-parted peaks.
They designate electron-rich or donor and electron-deficient or acceptor sites in the molecules.
The blue color in the molecule indicates a high potential (nucleophilic region or donor) region that arises from the accumulation of negative charge.
The red colored region is the region of the lowest potential (electrophilic or acceptor) that indicates the accumulation of positive charges in the molecule.
Neutral sites in the molecules have zero potential and are green colored.22 All the designed molecules (SBDT1–SBDT4) including SBDT-BDD have a similar pattern of colors, red and yellow colors are present mainly on regions containing electronegative atoms such as sulfur of the thiophene group, nitrogen of cyanide and benzothiazole groups, as well as oxygen of the carbonyl group, thus highlighting the donor sites.
The blue color is distributed on BDD acceptors, end-capped acceptors (except cyanides), and other regions containing methyl groups that indicate electron-deficient sites of the molecules.
Fluorine atoms on terminal acceptors are high potential (electron-rich) sites indicted by blue color.
MEP maps confirm that designed molecules have more efficient end-capped acceptors having a high positive potential, as indicated by blue sites, ensuring good ICT on excitation.
Transition density matrix (TDM) is another tool to evaluate the exciton dynamics, that is, generation, motion, and separation of the electron–hole pair and to estimate the type of interaction between the donor and acceptor components of the BDT-based molecule.
All the molecules are divided into three components, C, A, and B indicating the donor core, acceptors, and thiophene bridge, respectively, thus these components are labeled on a 2D-TDM plot to analyze the contribution of various components toward CT. All the molecules including the reference SBDT-BDD and designed chromophores SBDT1–SBDT4 showed diagonal bright fringes and off-diagonal bright portions for all components, indicating a uniform distribution and good delocalization of electrons on the whole molecule.
TDM analysis described that electron density is efficiently transferred from the donor core through thiophene bridges toward both acceptors in all the reported chromophores that can increase the PCE of OSCs.34
2D-TDM map of all designed molecules (SBDT1–SBDT4) and the reference molecule SBDT-BDD plotted through the Multiwfn_3.7 package at the CAM-B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory (C = core, B = bridge, and A = acceptors).
Introduction of electron acceptor groups at the terminals helps in the reduction of Coulombic forces and consequently easier dissociation.35 The reported molecules (reference and designed molecules) have terminal acceptors of varying strengths, thus they have different exciton binging energies.
Like the band gap, both SBDT-BDD and SBDT4 have comparable values of binding energy, ascribed to the constituent electron acceptors of equivalent strength.
The lower the reorganization energy, the higher the charge mobility will be, so SBDT4 has the lowest λ– value and the highest electron mobility among all the reported chromophores due to more efficient end-capped acceptor groups.
SBDT1 and SBDT2 have equivalent reorganization energies for electrons and holes owing to equally efficient end-capped acceptor groups (the difference in acceptors is of two fluorine atoms), thus both have equivalent hole and electron mobilities.
Donor materials in the active layer should have a high hole mobility that is advantageous to its efficient transport; SBDT1 and SBDT2 have the highest hole mobilities and hence are superior candidates as donor molecules for OSCs.
All designed molecules have a lower dipole moment than the reference molecule due to the presence of the benzothiazole acceptor that increased the symmetry in the designed molecules.
SBDT3 has the highest dipole moment among all designed molecules due to the greater charge separation endowed by the good electron-withdrawing effect of BDD acceptors and terminal acceptor groups, thus it is promising to increase CT in the active layer by improving its morphology.
It is dependent on the HOMO (donor)–LUMO (acceptor) difference and the rate of carrier generation and recombination and is is the highest value of voltage that can be obtained from a SC as a result of the photoelectric effect when the electric circuit contains no load.
It depends upon various factors such as the difference between the energy value of HOMO of the donor and LUMO of the acceptor, the intensity of light, charge mobilities, and the temperature of the device.
In our computational study of designed molecules, VOC is estimated by comparing the theoretically calculated HOMO energy levels of designed molecules to the LUMO energy level of PC61BM as the acceptor molecule that is reported in literature.
Expression 2 is used to calculate the value of VOC of combinations of our designed molecules as a donor with PC61BM as the common acceptor2
For a high value of VOC, there should be more stabilized (low energy) HOMO level of the donor and more de-stabilized (high energy) LUMO level of the acceptor.
All combinations of designed molecules with the PC61BM acceptor have a higher VOC than the reference molecule except SBDT4 and SBDT2 due to their less stabilized (high energy) HOMO energy levels.
SBDT3 has the highest value of VOC among all molecules having the most stabilized HOMO energy level due to its end-capped difluorobenzoid acceptor.
SBDT1 has a VOC value lower than that of SBDT3 but higher than that of the reference molecule due to its benzothiazole acceptors that extended the conjugation in the molecule, lowered the band gap, and increased the hole mobility of the molecule, resulting in the lowering of its HOMO energy level.
VOC of designed molecules including the reference molecule estimated with PC61BM as the acceptor.
In the present work, four A1–A2–D–A2–A1-type new molecules have been designed by substituting the acceptor moieties of the reference molecule with different electron-withdrawing groups that are reported in literature for their better properties.
The energy difference between HOMO of the designed molecules and LUMO of the PC61BM acceptor molecule was in the range of 2.15–2.46 eV; SBDT3 exhibited the largest VOC (2.46 eV), promising to improve the efficiency of organic photovoltaics.
Silicon phthalocyanines (SiPcs) are promising, inexpensive, and easy to synthesize non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) candidates for all-solution sequentially processed layer-by-layer (LbL) organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices.
Here, we report the use of bis(tri-n-butylsilyl oxide) SiPc ((3BS)2-SiPc) paired with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))] (PBDB-T) donors in an LbL OPV structure.
We also compared devices incorporating vanadium oxide (VOx) or poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS) as a hole transporting layer and found that VOx modified the donor layer morphology and led to improved Voc.
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) morphology has often been preferred over planar heterojunction (PHJ) morphology, due to significant improvements in device performance.6−9 Compared to the PHJ, which has a defined interface between the independently deposited donor and acceptor materials and therefore limited active area available for charge dissociation, the bulk blend of the acceptor and donor materials in BHJ results in the increased interfacial area.10,11 However, the random mixing of materials in BHJs makes it challenging to consistently reproduce device performances, particularly high performance with larger area devices, and complicates isolation of the photocharge behavior as a result of morphology changes, all of which significantly hinder a straightforward transition from lab-scale fabrication to mass production.12,13
A pseudo-bilayer configuration provides a convenient alternative, where the sequential layer-by-layer (LbL) deposition does not hinder favorable intermixing of the active layers while simultaneously providing a fabrication technique that is easier to optimize and translate to commercial printing processes.14 In LbL, the first active layer is often deposited via solution deposition, followed by either thermal evaporation15,16 or, more commonly, solution deposition of the second layer.17−23 All-solution LbL deposition can promote a more efficient morphology, with a vertical phase separation resulting in increased donor and acceptor concentrations at the respective electrodes and an intermixed region between the electrodes (fuzzy interface).24,25 This composition provides enough interfacial contact for excitons to be dissociated, with free charges readily extracted into neat layers to reduce unwanted charge recombination.
Additionally, donor swelling and regional depth can be easily tuned and controlled through parameters such as solvents,26−28 additives,29,30 or thermal treatments.25,31,32 Compared to BHJ devices, LbL devices have demonstrated better mechanical and thermal stability and are more robust to variances in experimental parameters including increased surface area22,23,33 while achieving equivalent or superior performances for many donor/acceptor systems.
Preeminent BHJ and LbL devices are normally achieved with novel small-molecule non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) based on fused acceptor–donor–acceptor push–pull architectures,20−23,34−36 such as (3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))-5,5,11,11-tetrakis-(4-hexylphenyl)dithieno[2,3-d:20,30-d0]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b0]dithiophene) (ITIC).22,34 While these elaborate architectures enable favorable molecule properties in OPVs, they require multiple complex synthetic steps with very low (<1%) overall synthetic yields, prohibiting commercialization of this technology37 and emphasizing the need for simple, inexpensive, and high-performing OPV materials that can be synthesized and purified through scalable processes.
(3BS)2-SiPc (Figure 1a) is a promising candidate as an acceptor molecule for OPVs due to its high solubility, proven performance as an acceptor in BHJ OPVs,41,44,58 and its elevated n-type mobility as reported in organic thin-film transistors.59,60 However, its performance as an NFA in LbL OPV devices has yet to be evaluated.
In the previous study, BHJ cells were fabricated with an inverted structure (glass/ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoOx/Ag).44 Inverted LbL structures are rare in the literature compared to direct LbL devices, due to the convenience of first depositing the donor polymer followed by deposition of a small-molecule acceptor.14 For a more accurate comparison between our BHJ and LbL devices, both were fabricated with a direct (glass/ITO/HTL/active layer/BCP/Ag, Figure 1b) architecture, using either PEDOT:PSS or VOx as the hole transporting layer.
We found the solvent combination that yielded optimal device performance was chloroform (CF) for the donor polymer (P3HT) and chlorobenzene (CB) for the acceptor molecule ((3BS)2-SiPc).
Current density–voltage (J–V) curves under 1 sun illumination for all devices using P3HT as the donor polymer and either PEDOT:PSS or VOx as the HTL are shown in Figure 2a–c, with corresponding electrical parameters summarized in Table 1.
Incorporation of (3BS)2-SiPc as the acceptor in BHJ devices with either HTL led to similar PCE performances compared to the baseline devices with a PC61BM acceptor, which represents a significant improvement over initial reports using (3BS)2-SiPc as an NFA in direct BHJ device configurations.41 While our PC61BM-based devices consistently achieved more favorable FF, the use of (3BS)2-SiPc resulted in higher Voc (Table 1).
The increased Voc, 0.58 to 0.70 V going from one acceptor to the other, is due to the increased energy gap between the (3BS)2-SiPc LUMO and the P3HT HOMO (Figure 1), while the drop in FF, 0.62 to 0.48, is likely attributed to the reduced electron mobility of (3BS)2-SiPc compared to PC61BM and unfavorable morphology.
This increase in Voc when using VOx instead of PEDOT:PSS could arise from a reduction of the injection barrier between the P3HT donor and the HTL.
Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to characterize P3HT films (no acceptor molecules) deposited under identical conditions, either on PEDOT:PSS or VOx, with representative images shown in Figure 4.
In contrast, P3HT deposited on VOx (Figure 4b) is characterized by more pronounced peak-to-valley height differences in the line height section, with a dramatically larger RMS roughness of 1.40 nm, confirming that the choice of HTL does influence the morphology of the donor layer.
From these findings, we assume that the VOx layer facilitates a more favorable templating surface for (3BS)2-SiPc onto P3HT, encouraging deeper interpenetration of the donor and acceptor at the interface, and potentially leading to increased donor/acceptor interfacial area and reduced charge recombination.
Sulfur ion (S–) was used to track P3HT, silicon ion (Si–) used for the (3BS)2–SiPc acceptor, vanadium oxide ion (VO2–) for the VOx HTL layer, and indium oxide ion (InO2–) was used to track the ITO electrode.
To assess the universality of our findings incorporating (3BS)2-SiPc into OPVs through the LbL approach, we combined our acceptor with another donor polymer.
As with our P3HT system, BHJ devices and LbL devices using PBDB-T as the donor polymer had very similar device performances.
UV–vis absorption spectra for the two donor–acceptor films (Figure 6c) have matching trends, with an intense absorption peak just before 700 nm.
After optimization, direct LbL devices fabricated with VOx achieved PCEs up to 3.0% when integrating P3HT as the donor polymer, and PCEs up to 3.3% for devices with PBDB-T as the donor polymer, with an impressive Voc up to 1.06 V. These represent the greatest reported PCE for SiPc-based LbL OPV devices, with the Voc value above 1 V among the highest achieved for both LbL and PBDB-T-based devices.
One of the factors currently limiting the direct printing of OPVs onto fabrics is the annealing process that is used to increase device efficiency by optimising the morphology of the active layer in the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure, which is utilised in the vast majority of efficient OPVs.1 Annealing is normally performed through thermal processes and it is known that, for example, by heating poly-(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) : indene-C60 adduct mixture (ICxA) films to 140 °C, for several minutes it is possible to produce R2R devices with a normal geometry of approximately 2.2% power conversion efficiency (PCE).6 The observed improvement in PCE is attributed to the increase in crystallinity of the donor phase of the BHJ, resulting in improved charge carrier mobility due to the greater conjugation length of the polymer.7 Annealing is also known to increase the domain size of the donor and acceptor phases of the BHJ and the number of conductive pathways to the electrodes of the device.
Prolonged annealing will result in a continuous growth of the BHJ phases, causing the donor–acceptor separation to become too large.
The synthesis of P3HT (performed via Grignard metathesis polymerisation) and ICXA were synthesized in house according to literature.11,12 ICXA is a crude mixture of mono-, bis-, and tris-adducted indene C60 which we have reported to be a low cost alternative for common fullerene acceptors such as PCBM.
The effects of the donor unit (triphenylamine), π-conjugation bridge (thiophene ring), and various acceptors (phenylacetonitrile and 2-cyanoacetamide derivatives) were investigated.
Theoretical density functional theory (DFT) was performed to study the distribution of electron density between donor and acceptor moieties.
Amongst donor units, triphenylamine, phenothiazine, carbazole, and coumarin have been commonly utilized as promising metal-free sensitizers13.
As previously stated, our research team was interested in developing and introducing new co-sensitizers based on D–π–A cyanoacetanilide compounds with multimolecular structures and a variety of acceptor and donor moieties.
Against this background, we present the design, synthesis, characterization, and photovoltaic performance of four innovative sensitizers stated as SFA-5–8, containing a triphenylamine moiety as a donor group attached to π-bridge (thiophene moiety) linked to different 2-cyano-acrylamide acceptors and phenyl acetonitrile units.
Hence, 2-cyano-acrylamide acceptor and phenyl acetonitrile units were chosen because they possess the good electron-accepting ability and, consequently, facilitate effective interaction with TiO227.
In this connection, the development of novel acceptors/anchors for dye-sensitizers is a very crucial task to enhance the performance of DSSCs.
As for the strong absorption peak observed in the visible spectrum region (420–600 nm), it could be mainly related to the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from the triphenylamine (donor) to the acceptor moieties32.
It is important to note that sensitizers (SFA-5–8) demonstrate intense absorption peaks in the visible region, specifically for SFA-5 that can be linked to the ICT from triphenylamine donor to the CN, and NO2 acceptors parts of the nitrophenyl acetonitrile unit.
Contrarily, SFA-5 showed the weakest absorbance characteristics compared to other 2-cyanoacetamide derivatives of SFA-6–8 sensitizers, thus confirming the direct effect of anchoring and acceptor groups on the absorbance enhancement.
Computational studies for SAF-5–8 dyes were established to unravel how the characteristic π-spacer and different anchoring/acceptors moiety thru phenylacetonitrile and cyanoacetamide derivative sensitizers influence the geometry of the targeted dyes and their DSSC photovoltaic efficiency.
Such values could reflect better coplanarity configurations and favorable conjugation between the thiophene-π-spacer and the acceptor moiety38.
Because of the steric hindrance between the donor (D), π-bridge, and acceptors units, we can theoretically determine the co-planarity of the compounds through the dihedral angle calculation.
All of these computed findings revealed a strong substantial conjugation impact that could strongly stimulate the electron transfer from the donating TPA moieties to the different electron acceptors over SFA-5–8 structures.
In this context, NBO analysis could study the stabilizing interactions between the filled (donor) and empty (acceptor) orbitals as well as the destabilizing interactions between the filled orbitals39.
By using the second-order perturbation approach, the hyper conjugative interaction energy was estimated from a donor (i), an acceptor (j), and the stabilization energy E(2) associated with the delocalization j, i could be estimated as the following equation:1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${{\varvec{E}}}^{(2)}={\boldsymbol{\Delta }{\varvec{E}}}_{{\varvec{i}},{\varvec{j}}}={{\varvec{q}}}_{{\varvec{i}}}\frac{{{\varvec{F}}({\varvec{i}},{\varvec{j}})}^{2}}{{{\varvec{\varepsilon}}}_{{\varvec{i}}}-{{\varvec{\varepsilon}}}_{{\varvec{j}}}}$$\end{document}E(2)=ΔEi,j=qiF(i,j)2εi-εjwhere qi represents the donor orbital occupancy, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${{\varvec{\varepsilon}}}_{{\varvec{i}}}\boldsymbol{ }\text{and}\boldsymbol{ }{{\varvec{\varepsilon}}}_{{\varvec{j}}}$$\end{document}εiandεj the diagonal elements and F(i, j) is the off-diagonal.
For SFA-5–8 sensitizers, the higher energy values of E(2) hyper conjugative interactions, the more intensive interaction between an electron donor (TPA moiety) and electron acceptors (NO2, COOH, CN, and pyridyl ring), means the greater ability to donate tendency from electron donor parts to electron acceptors.
This electron transition represents electron transfer across the sensitizer from triphenylamine (donor) to thiophene (system) ring to phenyl acetonitrile (acceptor), indicating effective charge transfer40.
On one hand, hardness could assess the maximal electromotive force between donors and electron acceptors within the same molecule.
Most importantly, SFA-7 had a greater value than the other TPA dyes, confirming that adding one additional acceptor and anchoring moieties (COOH, CN, CO, NH) to the dye molecule could facilitate the charge transfer features, thus better DSSC performance42.
When SFA6–8 sensitizers were injected, three fractions carrying the 2-cyanoacrylamide derivatives with different acceptors had been proposed which could defeat the charge recombination to a specific limit.
It is worth mentioning that the LUMO level of the di-anchoring dyes completely changed for the mono-anchoring counterparts, associated with the conjugation length and the electron-withdrawing character of the synthesized dyes acceptors as well as the HOMO–LUMO minimized band gaps44.
As expected SFA-6–8 molecules with nitrocyanoacetamide, carboxycyanoacetamide, and pyridinyl cyanoacetamide as strong acceptor moieties showed the smallest bandgap values compared to that of SFA-5 with the phenylacetonitrile segment.
That could be a direct evidence on the highest degree of conjugation between the electron-accepting (CO, CN, NO2, COOH, pyridyl ring) units and donor parts.
Intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from the dye HOMO level (depending on donor part) to its LUMO level (depending on acceptor part) is considered one of the most important features for achieving effective charge separation and better electron injection.
For the SFA-5 sensitizer, the electron density of HOMO was primarily localized on the donor parts (triphenylamine and thiophene ring), whereas the electron density of LUMO was largely localized on 4-nitroacetonitrile acceptor moiety (CN and NO2).
As such, the HOMO electron density was localized on triphenylamine donor part, but the LUMO counterpart shows a clear shift in the electron density towards the acceptor moieties (CN, CO, and NO2).
Noteworthy, the introduction 4-carboxylcyanoacetamide into the SFA-7 dye could facilitate the electron transfer from the TPA donor side and thiophene moieties to the acceptors part that localized on CN, CO, and COOH segments.
As for the SFA-8, the electronic distribution of its HOMO is mainly distributed over the donor and π-spacer, however, its LUMO orbitals are distributed mainly on the electron acceptor units of the 4-pyridylcyanoacetamide, resulting in strong electronic interaction with TiO2 surface.
It is not surprising to mention that the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from various donors to phenyl acrylonitrile/2-cyanoacetamide donors across all sensitizer moieties via the π-spacer had facilitated the HOMOs-LUMOs spatial level separation upon light irradiation.
The effect of donor–acceptor groups was analyzed by inspecting the different HOMO–LUMO levels and (MEPS) of all SFA-5–8 sensitizers (Fig. 9).
From further insights, the blue positive region of the MEP map was localized over the donor moieties such as the triphenylamine ring, π- conjugation system, and thiophene ring regions, thus demonstrating their favorite sites for nucleophilic attack.
Nitrophenyl acetonitrile sensitizers (SFA-5) showed the lowest efficiency attributed to the weakest acceptor moieties compared to other 2-cyanoacetamides sensitizers (SFA-6–8) and showed the lowest values of JSC and VOC values.
For SFA-6, by replacing the phenyl acetonitrile by 4-nitrocyanoacetamide, the anchoring process occurs through a carbonyl group (CO), (NH), (NO2), and (CN) groups that work as excellent withdrawing groups which provide the process of anchoring on the surface TiO2, increasing the number of anchoring function groups enhanced the efficiency than anchoring by only (CN) and (NO2) in SFA-5, the highest JSC, and better VOC values were reported for the 4-carboxylcyanoacetamide SFA-7 sensitizer associated with a higher photoconversion efficiency of about 7.56%, thus outperforming the best-reported dyes which mainly related to the various strong acceptor's group, carboxyl group plays a great role in surface adsorption on TiO2 addition to act as electron acceptors, given excellent electron-withdrawing capabilities relative to the Brønsted acid sites employed for the adsorption of carboxylates.
The presence of a second strong anchoring group (COOH) as an extra acceptor addition to the various anchors across the 2-cyanoacetamide segment (CO), (CN), and (NH) act as bifunctionality of acceptor and electron-withdrawing groups which seems to enhance the performance of the sensitized cells and the electron injection into the conduction band of TiO2 through H-aggregates50.
In addition, the high Rrec value of the SFA-7 molecule upon sensitization could be mainly ascribed to the SFA-7 structure containing various acceptors and anchoring moieties that are favorable for retarding charge recombination process.
In summary, we have synthesized four innovative phenylacetonitrile and 2-cyanoacetamide derivatives of dyes SFA-5–8 with different auxiliary donors and acceptors.
We studied how the presence of a thiophene spacer and different auxiliary acceptors (NO, CO, CN, COOH, and pyridyl groups) affected the photophysical and electrochemical performance of DSSC devices.
The calculated studies of the dihedral angle and NBO of SFA-5–8 revealed an efficient ICT across sensitizers from the donor to acceptor parts.
The expression for EQE is given by EQE(λ) = ηabs × ηgen × ηcoll, where ηabs is the ratio of absorbed light to incident light, ηgen is the ratio of photoexcited excitons that are converted to free carriers, and ηcoll is the carrier collection efficiency at the electrodes.5−7 In the archetypal OPV, charge separation is facilitated by bulk heterojunction (BHJ) active layers, where the high interfacial area between the continuous veins of electron donor polymers and electron acceptor molecules provides the driving force necessary for the generation of free carriers via the separation of charge-transfer excitons.5,8 High efficiencies in OPVs are ultimately limited by charge transport and recombination (ηcoll); however, locally improving the light absorption (ηabs) and the charge generation rate near the collection interface has the potential to improve PCE.
Recent approaches to increasing PCE in OPVs have emphasized on improving ηgen via the modification of the BHJ architecture and the design of more efficient donor/acceptor systems,9−14 as well as enhancing ηabs by designing organic–inorganic hybrid devices,15 tandem junctions,9,16 and incorporating metal nanocrystals (NCs) that support surface plasmons.5,17,18 Augmentation of light harvesting in OPVs has been achieved by embedding colloidal metal NCs in the active layer19−22 and the poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS) hole-transport layer.5,23−26 Although metal-NC-enhanced OPVs have attracted significant interest and resulted in 5–50% increase in photocurrents,26−29 the precise origin of plasmonic enhancement in OPVs has remained elusive and has been primarily correlated with improved absorption.
Our proposed mechanism is supported by recent studies which describe that nonequilibrium “hot” excitons at the donor/acceptor interface in BHJ architectures contribute strongly to carrier generation.32,33 This motivates our work where we demonstrate that plasmonic enhancement in BHJ OPVs is catalyzed by the interplay between charge-transfer excitons and surface plasmons and is not simply a result of improved light absorption.
Upon photoexcitation of the P3HT:PCBM active layer, a tightly bound exciton with a diffusion length of ∼10 nm is formed.7 In the reference OPVs, free carriers are formed when the exciton diffuses to the donor/acceptor interface and sufficient energy is available for charge separation.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) made of electron-acceptor and electron-donor materials have significantly developed in the last decade, demonstrating their enormous potential in cutting-edge optoelectronic applications.
Consequently, we designed seven novel non-fused ring electron acceptors (NFREAs) (BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7) using synthesized electron-deficient diketone units and reported end-capped acceptors, a viable route for augmented optoelectronic properties.
The TDM analysis demonstrates a smooth flow of charge from the core to the acceptor groups.
The PCE of single-junction OSCs has surpassed 17% because of the expansion of new non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) [6,7,8,9,10].
Fused ring acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) type assemblies are typically found in today’s most effective NFAs because of their minimal energy loss, tunable energy levels and stronglight absorption [11,12,13,14,15,16].
Because of their elevated HOMO energy levels, NFREAs containing non-fused electron-donating rings or alkyloxy-substituted benzene have typically been restricted to pairing with polymer donors such as PM6, PTQ10 having wide bandgap and lower-lying HOMO level.
As a result, the energy profile of hole transfer from NFREAs to donors is unfavorable [31].
When combined with wide bandgap polymer donors, electron affinity is increased by the diketone groups’ which prevents the HOMO levels from being efficiently boosted.
For an all-polymer solar cell, for instance, Guo’s team reported a PCE of 14.3% using an acceptor polymer holding BTI entity [37].
reported a pair of straightforward electron acceptors (BTIC-4F and TPDC-4F NFREAs) comprised of BTI and TPD electron-deficient diketone cores, correspondingly, linked to the DFIC terminals via a CPDT bridge [38].
We also shed light on the sophisticated molecular design behind efficient yet simple electron acceptors.
Using end-capped engineering, which replaces the terminal units with new electron-withdrawing groups, we created seven new simple electron acceptors (BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7).
In this study, BTIC-R [38], which contains 5-methyl-4H-dithieno[3,2-c:2’,3’-e]azepine-4,6(5H)-dione as the central acceptor unit (A1), served as our reference molecule.
2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile, which functions as the peripheral acceptor part (A2) and is directly connected to the donor fragments 4,4-dimethyl-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b’]dithiophene, makes the A2-D-A1-D-A2 type assembly of overall molecule.
Consequently, new electron acceptor groups were substituted for the formally stated A2.
These new electron acceptor units are as follows: 2-(2-methyl-5,6-dinitro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (BTIC-U1), 2-(6-cyano-2-methylene-5-nitro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylid(dinitromethylene)-5-methylene-1,3,5,6-tetrahydro-4H-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-one (BTIC-U4), (Z)-2-(2-ethylidene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta 2-(6,7-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile (BTIC-U5), 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]naphthalene-6,7-dicarbonitrile (BTIC- (BTIC-U7).
In the excited state, electron density also moves towards end-group acceptors (LUMO).
Nitro groups are present in the end-capped acceptor groups of BTIC-U1 molecules; these groups have the potential to contribute to the molecules’ stability.
The findings indicate that BTIC-U1 has a λmax of 761 nm in a solvent medium, pointing to a notable end-capped acceptor that may have affected its λmax.
The findings indicate that the LHE of these small molecules is significantly affected by the terminal acceptor moieties.
Studies of DOS are necessary for understanding how the total and partial DOS in the charge mobility of molecules validate the utilities of individual units (acceptor1, donor, and acceptor2) and the inclusive performance of investigated molecules.
For this investigation, studied compounds are cut up into three different units—acceptor1, donor, and acceptor2—so that the researchers could examine the contributions made by each fragment to the FMOs.
In Figure 7, black, blue, pink, and red lines represent the total contribution of the molecules (BTIC-R and BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7) as a whole, contributions of the donor moieties, acceptor2 and acceptor1, respectively.
The donor group is an essential factor in the overall elevation of the ground state for all of the recently developed molecules and the BTIC-R molecule (HOMO).
The contributions of both acceptor2 and acceptor1 to the HOMO energy level are similar but modest.
However, acceptor1 contributes slightly more to the HOMO energy level than acceptor2.
Based on these findings, it can be deduced that charges will be transferred via subsequent conjugation from the ground state of the donor fragment (electron-rich) part of molecules to the A2 unit in their excited state.
Because of the high electron density above these positions, ESP maps show the N and O atoms in the outer acceptor molecular regions as deep red.
Likewise, the oxygen atoms in the core’s acceptor region show up in red, making the existence of electron density in those regions obvious.
The hole and electron exchange between acceptor and donor units is indicated by the cationic and anionic geometries, respectively.
In addition, BTIC-U6 conjugation framework and strong elctron withdrawing group in acceptor regions give it a minimum value of λe (0.1217 eV), meaning it has a better rate of electron flow and can perform extraordinarily well in the process of charge transfer.
Regarding acceptor molecules, the BTIC-U6 molecule has been shown to be the most effective
To maximize hole mobility, the end-group acceptor effectively contributes to reducing the hole RE of the BTIC-U5 and BTIC-U6 molecules.
All compounds’ lower λe values relative to their λh values suggest that they have improved acceptor capacities in modern organic photovoltaic cells.
Compared to BTIC-R, the designed molecules have higher electrophilicity values, indicating that they function as acceptors.
The chemical potential allows an acceptor to gain a net negative charge.
The valence band of the donor material is typically coupled with the conduction band of the acceptor material, which results in optimal voltage.
In order to achieve the desired increased Voc values, the donor compound must have a lesser HOMO level, while the acceptor unit must have an upper LUMO level.
Donor polymer PTB7-Th’s HOMO level is blended with BTIC-R LUMO level, and small acceptor molecules were claimed in this investigation, enhancing Voc (BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7).
PTB7-Th has a HOMO energy of −5.01 eV and a LUMO energy of −3.60 eV, suggesting it is a solid donor.
(2)Voc=Eacceptor LUMO−Edonor HOMOe−0.3
The Voc present at the interface between the acceptor molecule and the donor molecule significantly influences this aspect.
In order to determine the transition pathway, the molecule was split into three sections, which were labeled donor (D), acceptor (A), and acceptor1 (A1) in Figure 12.
It was discovered that the flow of charge was effectively moving from donor to acceptor and acceptor1, which suggests that the whole molecule is enduring sequential conjugation.
The investigation of the interaction between BTIC-U1 and the well-known donor-type polymer PTB7-Th is being done so that we can evaluate the charge transfer (CT) capabilities of the molecules that we have designed.
As a result, the BTIC-U1 molecule is selected as the best acceptor molecule.
PTB7-Th, on the other hand, is a commonly used donor polymer in CT analysis.
The figure clearly demonstrates that the donor polymer is aligned in a precisely parallel direction to the acceptor BTIC-U1.
The findings suggest that the density of charge in the HOMO state is located on the electron-rich donor moiety.
In contrast, the density of electrons in the LUMO state is distributed across the acceptor molecule of BTIC-U1.
This distribution proved that electrons were transferred from the donor molecule to the acceptor atom.
Therefore, this acceptor group has been shown to be helpful for the effective molecular design of organic solar devices.
Seven new small molecule acceptors (BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7) of the A2-D-A1-D-A2 type were theoretically developed in the current study to increase the efficiency of organic solar cells by changing the end-group of the reference (BTIC-R) molecule.
The open circuit voltages (Voc) and PCE of BTIC-U1 to BTIC-U7 with respect to HOMOPBTB-Th–LUMOacceptor are found with efficient values.
Organic solar cells are mainly based on bulk heterojunctions composed of a polymer donor and a fullerene acceptor.
A number of promising donor materials has been developed, whereas very few successful fullerene derivatives have been proposed.
In addition, the IM chemical structure can be varied by substitutions at the nitrogen atom and/or aromatic ring to achieve the required solubility and miscibility with the donor materials in the bulk heterojunction.
The electrochemical data indicate that AIM could be attractive acceptors for fabrication of PSCs.
Therefore, one may expect that the long-chain AIMs are promising acceptors for PSCs as they have the higher solubility.
The low content of fullerene acceptor is insufficient for efficient charge transport in the bulk heterojunction as was observed in many other polymer–fullerene solar cells.
Since there is much room for further performance enhancement, the effects of different parameters (ETL and HTLlayers, back metal contact, acceptor carrier and defect density concentrations) on the cell performance are investigated.
Effects of acceptor carrier and defect density concentrations
The doping acceptor concentration of Cs2PtI6 layer can be estimated to be 1020 cm−3 and the best defect density concentration levels Nt of 1×1012 cm−3.
For this, we investigated the frequency of the ν(C   <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="16.000000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 16.000000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.005147,-0.005147)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 1440 l0 -80 1360 0 1360 0 0 80 0 80 -1360 0 -1360 0 0 -80z M0 960 l0 -80 1360 0 1360 0 0 80 0 80 -1360 0 -1360 0 0 -80z"/></g></svg>  C) modes as they display a frequency downshift (Δν) upon ground electronic state charge transfer (electrons released from the anthracenes) or ground electronic state polarization (between the donor and acceptor groups of the same molecule, i.e., by methoxy and N-oxide functionalizations), and this will be the spectroscopic Raman fingerprint of the electronic interaction mode between macrocycle 1 and the intercalated phenazines.
The so-called pump–probe-based approaches have been used in optical spectroscopy for decades and recently have been applied to electric SPM modes in order to resolve the local decay of the surface photovoltage in organic donor–acceptor blends, Vcpd changes in an organic transistor structure with microsecond temporal resolution, and picosecond relaxations of photovoltage in low-temperature grown GaAs.24,27,28 Limitations and possible artifacts of this approach have also been investigated by a number of groups.27,29 Murawski et al.
There has been long-standing debate on how free charges are generated in donor:acceptor blends that are used in organic solar cells, and which are generally comprised of a complex phase morphology, where intermixed and neat phases of the donor and acceptor material co-exist.
Organic solar cells, often based on thin-film blends of conjugated polymers with fullerene electron acceptors, have reached power conversion efficiencies over 10% (refs 1, 2, 3, 4).
We therefore propose that relatively subtle changes in the molecular arrangement (donor-acceptor separation and orientation) and local environment (disorder, microscopic fields, delocalization and energy gradients) of the initially generated electron–hole pairs are sufficient to determine whether the geminate charges will be able to separate or not42505152.
We focus here on the pBTTT:PCBM model system, but our conclusions are generally relevant, since the interplay of neat and intermixed phases in donor:acceptor blends is a general issue in polymer:fullerene blends and, likely, most organic photovoltaic systems1819202122.
In particular our insights concerning the impact of the molecular arrangement, electronic coupling and local environment in determining the ability of electron–hole pairs to dissociate will be important to further develop rational approaches towards materials design and processing with control of the donor:acceptor interface at molecular level.
By combining an inherently stable donor:acceptor blend as the active layer and ultrathin substrate and barriers with excellent thermal capability, we were able to overcome the trade-offs between efficiency, stability, and device thickness.
Particularly, we introduce a low-bandgap poly(benzodithiophene-cothieno[3,4-b]thiophene) (PBDTTT) donor polymer that forms a sturdy microstructure when blended with a fullerene acceptor.
OPVs having initial efficiencies of up to 10% (13), especially those with the fullerene acceptor [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), were reported to exhibit rapid degradation due to a general tendency of phase reorganization at high temperatures (14, 15).
The most stable system, poly (3-hexylthiophene) blended with fullerene acceptor as the active layer, was reported with 95% retained performance after 1,000 h under 85 °C and 85% relative humidity with an initial PCE of 2.7% (23).
The donor polymer, poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b’]dithiophene -2,6-diyl-alt-(4-octyl-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene)-2-carboxylate-2–6-diyl] (PBDTTT-OFT, Fig.
(C) Chemical structure of the donor polymer, PBDTTT-OFT, developed in this study.
Starting from well-known copolymers combining benzodithiophene (BDT) and thienothiophene (TT) moieties, which have narrow bandgaps and have been widely applied in OPVs with PCEs exceeding 10% (31), we designed a BDT-TT–type donor polymer, PBDTTT-OFT, with a linear alkyl side chain attached on the ester group of the fluorine-substituted TT unit.
A complete intermixing between the donor polymer and PC71BM, which is insensitive to deposition temperatures, offers viability in practical roll-to-roll production of large-area flexible modules under room temperature.
As another choice for an electron donor material, PTB7-Th should be more suitable with an effective band gap of 1.57 eV.
The N–H⋯Cl hydrogen-bonding in (3-pyrrolinium)NiCl3 is stronger than the other two compounds, which can be clearly seen from the shortest distance between the donor (N) and acceptor (Cl) in (3-pyrrolinium)MCl3 (M = Cd, Mn, Ni) with 3.335, 3.306 and 3.302 Å respectively (Fig.
Much work is devoted to the synthesis of Eu3+ and Tb3+ complexes, which are characterized by brilliant luminescence and better emission in the red and green regions respectively.13–15 In comparison with Eu3+ and Tb3+ ions, the optical properties of Sm3+ ions are less studied due to a smaller energy gap between the resonating level (4G5/2) and the subsequent energy state.5,9,16,17 However, the Sm3+ ion has some other extraordinary properties such as dual emitting behaviour in UV-visible as well as NIR regions and also emission of various colors (red, orange and green) in a single complex that attract the attention of authors.18–20 However, the 4f–4f transition of lanthanide(iii) ions is Laporte forbidden, which results in a low emission intensity.21,22 To overpower lesser intensity and for the effective transfer of energy, organic ligands with a high absorption coefficient, a bidentate donor site and an extensive π conjugation system are required for chelation with lanthanide(iii) ions.
The impact of chelation of ligands on the optical characteristics of lanthanide(iii) ions is known as the “antenna effect”.23–25 Ligands have a higher affinity to coordinate with lanthanide(iii) ions via oxygen (O) and nitrogen (N) atom donor sites.
The increased activity of complexes could be easily explained by Overtone's theory and Tweedy's chelation theory.105,106 The polarity of the ligand was reduced by partial sharing of the +ve charge of the metal with the donor (ligand).
Ternary OPVs with different poly[thieno[3,2-b]thiophene-2,5-diyl-alt-4,9-bis(4-(2-decyltetradecyl)thien-2-yl)naphtho[1,2-c:5,6-c’]bis[1,2,5]thiadiazole-5,5′-diyl] (PTT-DTNT-DT) doping concentrations were designed and the effect of PTT-DTNT-DT as a complementary electron donor on the performance of OPVs was investigated.
For ternary blend OPVs with “two donors/one acceptor”, the third component should be a material whose absorption spectral is complementary with that of the host system; this was helpful to improve the photonic capture performance of active layers with different bandgap materials [13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22].
In order to supplement the absorption spectrum, the focus of attention has been the study of additional donors with near-infrared absorption in ternary OPVs.
Therefore, the PTT-DTNT-DT was considered to be the ideal complementary donor material in ternary OPVs.
In this work, the low bandgap polymer PTT-DTNT-DT was chosen as the second donor to incorporate into the P3HT and PC61BM binary active layer of OPVs to enhance the absorption of the blend.
At the same time, the complementary electron donor PTT-DTNT-DT can absorb more solar lights from longer wavelength, resulting in more excitons and free charge carriers.
With the increase of the doping concentration of PTT-DTNT-DT in the donor, the properties of these OPVs increase first and then decrease, which might result in a disturbed interpenetrated network and increased charge recombination.
Since interfacial losses are not active layer specific, a ratio of the donor- and acceptor-material internal quantum efficiencies cancels this quantity.
For OPVs, in particular, excitons must migrate to a dissociating electron donor–acceptor (D-A) interface, making exciton transport a critical step towards efficient photoconversion19–24.
The value of ηCS is thus independent of whether a carrier originates from the donor or acceptor exciton.
As such, a ratio of the donor and acceptor internal quantum efficiencies (ηIQE) cancels this unknown quantity and depends only on the exciton harvesting efficiencies (ηD) at short-circuit:1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\frac{{\eta _{{\mathrm{IQE}}}^{\mathrm{D}}}}{{\eta _{{\mathrm{IQE}}}^{\mathrm{A}}}} = \frac{{\eta _{\mathrm{D}}^{\mathrm{D}}\eta _{{\mathrm{CS}}}}}{{\eta _{\mathrm{D}}^{\mathrm{A}}\eta _{{\mathrm{CS}}}}} = \frac{{\eta _{\mathrm{D}}^{\mathrm{D}}}}{{\eta _{\mathrm{D}}^{\mathrm{A}}}}$$\end{document}ηIQEDηIQEA=ηDDηCSηDAηCS=ηDDηDAIn order to model ηD, exciton diffusion is treated with a one-dimensional steady-state diffusion equation:2\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$0 = D\frac{{\partial ^2n\left( x \right)}}{{\partial x^2}} - \frac{{n\left( x \right)D}}{{L_{\mathrm{D}}^2}} + G\left( x \right) - n\left( x \right)k_{\mathrm{F}}\,{\mathrm{with}}\,L_{\mathrm{D}} = \sqrt {D\tau }$$\end{document}0=D∂2nx∂x2-nxDLD2+Gx-nxkFwithLD=Dτwhere n is the exciton density, D is the diffusion coefficient, τ is the exciton lifetime, and G is the optical exciton generation rate calculated by transfer matrix modeling.
For systems with a spectral overlap of donor emission and acceptor absorption, the rate of donor–acceptor Förster energy transfer (rate constant: kF) must be included.
(1) as a function of active layer thickness, LD values for the donor and acceptor materials can be extracted simultaneously.
In order to compare the results of the photocurrent-ratio method to well-established photoluminescence quenching methods, we first consider the archetypical donor–acceptor pairing of boron subphthalocyanine chloride (SubPc) and C60 (Fig.
To accurately measure LD in bilayer OPVs, it is important to ensure that the only mechanism for exciton dissociation is at the donor–acceptor interface.
It is worth noting that while a reduced Ebi could hinder the separation of relaxed CT states at the donor–acceptor interface, we will demonstrate that this does not impact our measurement provided ηCS is identical for charges originating from both active materials.
Figure 1d shows external quantum efficiency (ηEQE) spectra for SubPc-C60 PHJ devices as a function of SubPc donor-layer thickness with the acceptor and buffer layer thicknesses held fixed.
The simulated 1-reflectivity (R) spectra (absorption of the device stack) agree well with experimental results as a function of donor thickness (Supplementary Figure 3).
For the device with a donor thickness of 10 nm, the maximum ηEQE (at λ = 590 nm, SubPc absorption) exceeds 65% and the corresponding ηIQE is about 85%.
From the extinction coefficients (k) of SubPc and C60, spectral regions of dominant absorption for both donor and acceptor can be isolated.
Accordingly, for the construction of the ηIQE ratio, the individual ηIQE of the donor and acceptor are extracted from λ = 575 nm (primarily SubPc absorption) and λ = 400 nm (primarily C60 absorption), respectively.
Due to the spectral overlap of SubPc PL emission and C60 absorption, donor–acceptor Förster energy transfer is included when using eq.
As only the donor thickness is varied, the LD of the donor and acceptor have different roles in determining the overall behavior of the ηD ratio as thickness changes (dash lines in Fig. 2a).
To show this more explicitly, the values of ηD at λ = 575 nm and 400 nm are plotted as a function of donor thickness in Fig.
The observation of a constant acceptor ηD with increasing donor thickness offers some inherent advantages.
First, the LD of the donor and acceptor can be fit independently, as the shape of the ηD ratio (or normalized ηD ratio) only depends on donor LD.
As such, any non-ideality in acceptor LD measurement, such as exciton loss at the acceptor-cathode interface, would not reduce the accuracy of donor LD provided free carriers are still only generated at the D–A interface.
In addition, the relative change in ηCS with donor thickness is directly reflected by the acceptor ηIQE.
1e) indicates that a thicker donor layer leads to a lower ηCS.
This is likely due to an increase in bulk resistance of the donor layer that consumes more built-in voltage and thus reduces the electric field strength at D–A interface57.
A set of unquenched samples (ηD = 0) are fabricated by replacing acceptor C60 with the exciton blocking material BCP.
It also worth noting the clear reduction in ηCS with increasing donor layer thickness, likely reflecting a reduction in Ebi.Fig.
To identify whether the exciton relaxation loss is from SubPc or C60, a second donor–acceptor system of SubPc-NPD is examined where SubPc serves as the electron acceptor (or hole donor)7.
In these devices, the electron acceptor SubPc has low electron mobility, which can lead to significant recombination losses due to slow CT state separation61.
For λ = 590 nm (mainly SubPc), the fraction of excitons dissociated at the D–A interface, quenched at the ITO-SubPc interface, and undergoing recombination within the donor layer are 73%, 21%, and 6%, respectively.
For λ = 450 nm (mainly C60), 88% of C60 excitons relax to the lowest energy Frenkel states (47% dissociated at D–A interface and 41% recombining in the acceptor layer).
Similar to the SubPc-C60 system, we employ a SubNc-C70 PHJ device with varying donor thickness to extract the intrinsic LD of both dark materials (structure: ITO/8.5 nm mCP/X ( = 9–40.5) nm SubNc/27 nm C70/11 nm BCP/1 nm MoOx/100 nm Al).
5b, the individual ηIQE of the donor and acceptor can be extracted from λ = 685 nm (SubNc absorption peak) and λ = 430 nm (primarily C70 absorption), respectively.
By fitting the donor–acceptor ηD ratio (determined as previously described) as a function of SubNc thickness (Fig.
PTB7 is a high-performing polymer electron donor in OPVs, with demonstrated power efficiencies as high as 9.2% when combined with the fullerene acceptor PC71BM65.
Here, we employ it as an electron-donor material paired with fullerene acceptor C60.
A thin layer of wide energy gap HfO2 is utilized as an exciton blocking layer at ITO/donor interface (deposited via atomic layer deposition).
The donor ηIQE is extracted from λ = 670 nm (PTB7 absorption peak) while the acceptor ηIQE is extracted from λ = 350 nm (C60 Frenkel exciton absorption peak).
The CdSe QD-C545T planar cell has an inverted device architecture: ITO/2.5 nm HfO2/X (= 42, 66) nm CdSe QD/Y ( = 26–56) nm C545T/11 nm TAPC/10 nm MoOx/100 nm Al, where the CdSe QDs serves as the electron acceptor layer and photogenerated electrons are collected at ITO.
The donor ηIQE is extracted at λ = 450 nm (C545T absorption peak) while the acceptor ηIQE is extracted at λ = 575 nm (QD excitonic absorption peak).
The impact of often unknown recombination losses is negated when taking a ratio of donor and acceptor ηIQE.
In the bulk-heterojunction design both materials (donor and acceptor) are prepared as a microscopic interpenetrating network (Figure 1b).
We demonstrate benefits of such multi-dimensional characterizations on (i) bulk heterojunctions of fully organic composite films using fullerenes as electron acceptors, indicating differences in blend quality and component segregation leading to local shunts of PV cell [42,43], and (ii) thin-film heterojunction of PPy electro-polymerized on hydrogen-terminated diamond, indicating covalent bonding and enhanced exciton dissociation in such systems [44-47].
Basic type of organic bulk heterojunction was based on fullerene C60 as electron acceptor.
Based on the result with pure fullerene, more advanced bulk heterojunctions were prepared, with fullerene derivatives being used as electron acceptors: [6,6]-thienylC61 butyric acid methyl ester ([60]ThCBM), and [6,6]-thienylC71 butyric acid methyl ester([70]ThCBM).
Poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) was used as electron donor.
In this work we have theoretically investigated the optoelectronic properties of a series of acceptor–donor–acceptor type molecules by employing density functional theory formalism.
We have used 1,1-dicyano-methylene-3-indanone as the acceptor unit and a fused N-methyl-dithieno-pyrrole as the donor unit.
From the calculation of reorganization energy it is confirmed that our designed molecules behave more likely as donor materials.
Our calculated results also reveal that compounds with electron donating substituents at the acceptor units show higher value of λmax.
Absorption spectra of donor/acceptor blends show similar trends with the isolated compounds.
Observed lower exciton binding energy values for all the compounds indicate facile charge carrier separation at the donor/acceptor interface.
However, PBDB-C2 and PBDB-C4 with the highest PCE of 18.25% can become the best candidate for application in photovoltaics.In this work we have theoretically investigated the optoelectronic properties of a series of acceptor–donor–acceptor type molecules by employing density functional theory formalism.
In spite of all these remarkable optoelectronic properties it has many intrinsic disadvantages including weak absorption of solar radiation, poor chemical and electronic tunability, tedious purification, high production costs, difficult fabrication to modify their energy levels and absorption.1,2,6,7,10 To overcome these issues, non-fullerene (NF) small-molecule acceptors with wide and efficient absorption, facile synthesis, and more finely tunable energy levels have been developed rapidly in past few years.
Numerous NF small-molecule acceptors have been reported on the basis of a variety of π-conjugated moieties viz.
It is reported that some NF-based OSCs, exhibit better performance than fullerene-based control devices.11–14 It has been already reported that the use of non fullerene based semiconducting materials in photovoltaics have increased the PCE up to 18.5%.12,15,16 Among these, small-molecule acceptors with the acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) backbone architecture, similar to the widely used and rather successful small-molecule donors, have drawn interest due to their easily tunable energy levels and high device performances.
For efficient charge transportation, the fundamental band gap i.e., difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of polymers should lie within a suitable range so that electrons and holes can be injected to the polymer surface from the metal electrode.2,6,19,20 It is possible to improve the PCE of the OSCs by designing and synthesizing of small molecule acceptors.
Presently, A–π–D–π–A type of small molecule in which an electron rich donor unit (D) is linked to two electron deficient acceptor (A) groups via two π-bridges is one of the most hopeful molecule design strategies.21
We have used 1,1-dicyano-methylene-3-indanone as the acceptor unit and a fused N-methyl-dithieno-pyrrole as the donor unit.23 We have chosen N-methyl-dithieno-pyrrole as the donor unit due to its suitable photophysical properties viz.
high planarity, low band gap, high absorption coefficient etc.24 The donor–acceptor representation of our investigated systems have been provided in Fig.
We have carried out substitution at the 7th and 8th positions of the acceptor unit with different groups viz.
In this regard, we have investigated the effect of electron donating and electron withdrawing substituents at different positions (7th and 8th) in the acceptor unit.
It has been observed from the literature that substituents at 7th and 8th position of the acceptor unit leads to high planarity and high electron mobility.25 We have studied different properties viz.
For better understanding of the electronic properties of our designed compounds we have taken a standard fused ring electron acceptor (FREAs, a76)26 unit and placed it in the length of 3.5 cm with all the compounds.
Representation of acceptor–donor–acceptor unit.
It has been observed from Table 1 that the substitution of the electron withdrawing group –F at the acceptor part in both gas as well as solvent phase, leads to the lower value of dihedral angle (ϕ1 = 0.00362°, ϕ2 = 0.00047°).
This is due to the presence of electron withdrawing (–F) group at the acceptor part.
3 and 4 of the ESI.† From these figures it is clear that HOMOs of the compounds mostly concentrate in the donor unit via delocalization of π-electron cloud leaving the acceptor part empty.
This supports the electron donating nature of the donor unit.
On the contrary, the LUMOs of the compounds spread over the entire molecule leaving the donor part partially empty.
7 that the donor unit offers maximum contribution to the HOMOs and the acceptor unit offers maximum contribution to the LUMOs.
From Table S3† it is observed that the donor unit of PBDB-C6 has the highest contribution toward HOMOs (69%) and the acceptor unit of compounds PBDB-C4 and PBDB-C7 have the highest contribution toward LUMOs (64%) among all the investigated compounds.
In compounds PBDB-C2, PBDB-C3 and PBDB-C4, the acceptor unit is substituted with the electron withdrawing –F group whereas in compounds PBDB-C5, PBDB-C6 and PBDB-C7, the acceptor unit is substituted with the electron donating –OCH3 groups.
Compounds PBDB-C4 and PBDB-C6 are substituted by –F and –OCH3 groups at the 7th position of the acceptor unit and offers maximum contribution toward LUMO energy levels.
However, the donor unit shows almost similar contribution toward HOMO energy levels except PBDB-C6.
Moreover, we have also observed that substituents attached at the 7th position of the acceptor unit exhibits lower ΔH–L values.
Thus it can be concluded that attachment of electron withdrawing –F and and electron donating –OCH3 groups at the acceptor part increases the contribution toward LUMO energy levels and also enhances the contribution of donor unit toward HOMO energy levels.
The presence of –OMe and –F groups at the acceptor part increase and decrease the electron density of HOMOs of the respective compounds.
This figure clearly indicates that the electron density in the acceptor part is minimum in PBDB-C2 and maximum in compounds PBDB-C5 and PBDB-C7 compared to the unsubstituted compound (PBDB-C1).
Moreover, the presence of electron donating group (–OMe) in PBDB-C5 increases the electron density in the acceptor part and hence charge transportation between the donor and acceptor is not facile.
This is due to the presence of the strong electron withdrawing –F group in the acceptor part that pulls the electron density towards itself.
From Tables 7 and 8 we have observed a blue shift for the compounds substituted with electron donating groups at the acceptor part.
On the other hand for the compounds substituted with electron withdrawing group at the acceptor part we have observed red shift.
Properties of donor/acceptor (D/A) active layers
In OSCs the acceptor molecules absorb sunlight to generate excitons which split only after reaching the D/A interface.
Calculated ΔH–L, E1, Eb and ΔG values of all the studied acceptors in eV unit
The ground state electrons of the donor material get excited upon irradiation of light of suitable wavelength and transfer of these excited electrons to acceptor takes place when Gibb's free energy change (ΔG) becomes negative.
The dissociation of electron–hole pairs into free charges takes place at the D/A interface and it spreads in the acceptor where, the electrons and holes should be collected by the respective electrodes.
The value of ΔG can be calculated from the Rehm–Weller equation as follows:15ΔG = IP(D) − EA(A) − E1 − ΔEbwhere IP(D) represent the ionization potential of the donor and EA(A) represent the electron affinity of the acceptor which are considered to be the negative of the HOMO and LUMO energies of the donor and acceptor respectively.
From Table 9 it has also been observed that all compounds possesses negative ΔG values which in turn indicate the spontaneous transfer of excited electrons into the acceptor molecule.
The conversion of light to electricity in OSCs mostly depends on the proper arrangement of the D/A blends.42 Since our designed molecules behave more likely as a donor material therefore, we have arranged a standard acceptor molecule viz.
fused ring electron acceptor (FREA) in a face to face orientation to provide large intermolecular electronic coupling.26,75 The initial distance between the center of the donor and acceptor have been set as 3.5 Å.
It has been observed from Tables 7, 8 and 10, 11 that except the complex FREA/PBDB-C1, all the D/A active blends exhibit a red shift compared to the isolated donor molecules for both the phases.
It has also been observed that the λmax values of the D/A blends follow the same trend with that of the isolated donor molecules.
Hence, from the observed absorption properties of the D/A blends it can be concluded that our designed small molecules have the potential to act as ideal donor molecules for the fabrication of OSCs.
Besides, we can further emphasize that all the designed small molecules have the potential to act as ideal donor molecules for the fabrication of photovoltaic devices.
In this paper, we have tried to design some small potential donor molecules to fabricate efficient OSC.
Moreover, substitution by the electron withdrawing groups at the acceptor part leads to the red shift.
In short, we can conclude that the attachment of electron withdrawing groups at the acceptor part of our studied molecules favors better tuning of optoelectronic properties.
In a nutshell, we can conclude that our designed compounds may act as potential donor materials to fulfill the purpose of OSCs at the D/A interface.
Molecular materials with π-conjugated donor–acceptor (D–A) and acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) electronic structures have received significant attention due to their usage in organic photovoltaic materials, in organic light-emitting diodes, and as biological imaging agents.
Here, we utilize Stille cross-coupling chemistry to prepare a series of compounds with boron difluoride hydrazones (BODIHYs) as acceptors and benzene, thiophene, or 9,9-dihexylfluorene as donors.
Donor–acceptor (D–A) and acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) molecules that benefit from extended π-conjugation have been widely studied as a result of their unique properties such as charge transfer,1−10 thermally activated delayed fluorescence,5,11−18 and aggregation-induced emission (AIE) (Figure 1).19−26 This has led to their exploitation in a number of applications including organic light-emitting diodes,26−29 organic photovoltaic materials,30−47 and bioimaging.13,48−52 In order for molecular materials to be utilized in the aforementioned applications, control over the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies is often required.
When 1, which contains several thiophene (TH) groups appended to a fluorenone core, was incorporated into bulk heterojunction solar cells the power conversion efficiency (PCE) reached up to 0.8%.53 When 2 was incorporated into an organic solar cell, a PCE of 18% was achieved, which is the highest PCE reported to date for solar cells employing nonfullerene acceptors.54
Representative donor–acceptor, acceptor–donor–acceptor, and boron difluoride hydrazone (BODIHY) compounds.
Alternatively, electron-deficient boron-containing compounds have been integrated into D–A and A–D–A compounds as the electron acceptor component.
Heterocycles based on boron difluoride (BF2) adducts of chelating N-donor ligands are molecular materials that offer useful and potentially tunable redox, absorption, and emission properties.
Perhaps the most well-known of these materials are the boron dipyrromethenes (BODIPYs), which have been highly sought after due to their narrow absorption and emission profiles, very high emission quantum yields (Φem) in solution, and rich redox chemistry.55−57 BODIPYs have been incorporated into molecular materials with an A–D–A architecture (e.g., 3) and exhibit near-infrared absorption and emission, electrochemical band gaps (EgCV) as low as 1.67 eV, and the ability to generate singlet oxygen.58 Combining TH donors with BF2-containing materials, such as BODIPYs, has resulted in red-shifted emission wavelengths, sometimes into the near-infrared region, due to the expansion of the π-electron system.59 Our group has recently demonstrated that when BF2 formazanates are bridged by a strong donor such as benzodithiophene (4), an EgCV of 1.21 eV and an optical band gap (EgOpt) of 1.38 eV can be achieved.60
The purpose of this work was to incorporate boron difluoride hydrazones (BODIHYs) as the electron acceptors in D–A and A–D–A scaffolds to demonstrate the ease of property tuning for these unique molecular materials via extended π-conjugation.
BODIHYs (e.g., 5) are BF2-containing heterocycles based on chelating pyridylhydrazone ligands, and these materials exhibit aggregation-induced emission and interesting redox chemistry.61−68 We recently developed triphenylamine–BODIHY conjugates (e.g., 6) that exhibit dual emission, AIE, multiple redox waves, and charge-transfer characteristics.61 Inspired by the traits associated with these BODIHY-bearing strong triarylamine donors, we were interested in utilizing BODIHYs as electron acceptors and altering the nature of the donor in D–A and A–D–A architectures.
Herein, we present a systematic approach to investigating structure–property relationships for BODIHYs linked to several donors in D–A and A–D–A molecular frameworks and present their optoelectronic, AIE, and redox properties.
We utilized Stille cross-coupling reactions for the production of D–A and A–D–A BODIHYs by modifying a procedure used to prepare a related family of compounds (Scheme 1).60 Our approach began by preparing Br–BODIHY 7 according to a literature procedure.61 Benzene (BE), thiophene (TH), and 9,9-dihexylfluorene (FL) were chosen as donors due to the commercial availability and/or synthetic accessibility of the relevant synthons (Figures S1 and S2) and the variation of the size of the corresponding π-electron systems.
The differences in optical properties within this series of compounds directly related to the identity of the bridging donor.
This statement was corroborated by the fact that the HOMOs spanned the bridging donor in each compound.
This observation was rationalized by comparing the angles between planes defined by the N-aryl substituents of the BODIHY heterocycle and the neighboring aryl ring of the bridging donor groups in the optimized structures (Figure S27).
A–D–A BODIHYs 12 and 13, which include TH and FL donors, respectively, each exhibited two one-electron oxidations, with the former demonstrating the lowest oxidation potential of 0.38 V, indicating that TH-containing BODIHY 12 has the highest HOMO energy in this series.
Compared to analogous BF2 formazanate A–D–A compounds containing TH and FL as bridging donor groups,60 BODIHYs 12 (Eox1 = 0.38 V, Ered1 = −1.87 V) and 13 (Eox1 = 0.61 V, Ered1 = −1.93 V) exhibited lower oxidation and reduction potentials.
The estimated HOMO energies ranged between −5.70 and −5.42 V and reflected the structural variation of the donor groups incorporated.
In conclusion, we report the straightforward synthesis of D–A (8–10) and A–D–A (11–13) BODIHYs with PH, TH, and FL donor units using Stille cross-coupling chemistry.
The calculated frontier molecular orbitals of D–A compounds 8–10 were highly delocalized while A–D–A analogues 11–13 possess HOMOs localized on the donor groups and LUMOs and LUMO + 1s localized on the BODIHY acceptors.
Incorporating various donor groups led to the presence of multiple oxidation waves at potentials lower than those observed for related π-conjugated A–D–A materials containing BF2 units.
2-ethylhexylthiothiophene-substituted benzodithiophene (BDTT), 2,3-diphenylquinoxaline (DQx) [or 2,3-bis(3-fluorophenyl)quinoxaline (DmFQx)] and 2-ethylhexylthiophene (T) were used as the electron donor (D) unit, electron-withdrawing acceptor (A) unit and π-bridge, respectively.
At present, the state-of-the-art structure of PSCs is based on the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) type, where the photoactive layer is composed of a blend of a conjugated polymer as the donor material and a fullerene derivative or non-fullerene fuse-ring molecule as the acceptor material [8,9,10].
Hence, to obtain high-efficient PSCs, the donor materials are required to have narrow bandgap energy and suitable molecular energy levels to maximize the short-circuit current (Jsc), open-circuit voltage (Voc) and high carrier mobility to facilitate carrier transport.
These goals can be achieved by tuning the molecular structures of donor–acceptor (D–A) conjugated polymers.
Of these, quite a few donor and acceptor units have been developed in the past decade, such as quinoxaline (Qx) [15,16] or 2,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-c]-pyrrole-1,4-dione (DPP) [17] as the acceptor unit and 2,7-fluorene [18], 2,7-carbazole [19], benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) as the donor unit [20,21].
Among these various donor units, the BDT unit has become one of the most successful frameworks in the design and synthesis of efficient donor materials since it was first used for PSCs in 2009, owing to its rigid and planar molecular structure [20].
Two-dimensional conjugated BDT units were developed for the synthesis of donor materials, which not only broaden the absorption spectra, but also enhance the hole mobilities [22,23].
As a strong electron acceptor unit, quinoxaline (Qx) is widely used as the skeleton of a D–A type conjugated polymer for PSC applications [24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31].
Recently, introducing fluorine atoms in conjugated polymers as the donor materials in PSCs was generally expected to modulate the optical and electrochemical properties, and molecular packing to facilitate carrier transport to enhance photovoltaic properties [32].
For example, the NBG polymer with a fluoride Qx unit at the 5,6-position as the donor, and PC71BM as the acceptor, achieved a high PCE value of 8.0% [29].
Encouraged by these results, in this study we report the synthesis and properties of non-fluorinated and fluorinated Qx units based on narrow-bandgap (NBG) polymers, namely PBDTT-DTQx and PBDTT-DTmFQx (Scheme 1), in which a strong donor unit of 2-ethylhexylthiothiophene-substituted benzodithiophene (BDTT) has been introduced in the main chains.
This result demonstrates that the fluorine-substituted side-chain on the acceptor unit is a useful strategy to fine tune energy levels of NBG polymers.
The high-lying absorption band from 300 to 500 nm was attributed to the π-π* transition of the conjugated backbone, and the other band from 500 to 800 nm was assigned to the strong intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) state from the donor to the acceptor unit [30].
Highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of the donor materials strongly affect the Voc and the charge separation efficiency of PSCs.
To investigate the photovoltaic properties of PBDTT-DTQx and PBDTT-DTmFQx, PSCs were fabricated by blending PBDTT-DTQx or PBDTT-DTmFQx as the donor and PC71BM as the acceptor with the configuration of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/polymer:PC71BM/PDINO (perylene diimide functionalized with amino N-oxide)/Al.
Photovoltaic performances of the devices were optimized by using different donor/acceptor weight ratios, active layer thicknesses, and solvents with 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) as the additive.
The optimized device fabrication conditions include the donor/acceptor weight ratio of 1:1.5 for PBDTT-DTQx and 1:2 for PBDTT-DTmFQx, and an active layer thickness of ca.
To further optimize the photovoltaic properties of PSCs, DIO was frequently selected as the solvent additive due to its ability to solvate fullerene derivatives as the acceptor and high boiling point.
Blending organic electron donors and acceptors yields intermolecular charge-transfer states with additional optical transitions below their optical gaps.
We demonstrate narrowband detection with spectral widths down to 36 nm and resonance wavelengths between 810 and 1,550 nm, far below the optical gap of both donor and acceptor.
The broad spectral tunability via a simple variation of the cavity thickness makes this innovative, flexible and potentially visibly transparent device principle highly suitable for integrated low-cost spectroscopic near-infrared photodetection.Interfaces of organic donor-acceptor blends provide intermolecular charge-transfer states with red-shifted but weak absorption.
In molecular blends that allow for charge transfer, it is energetically favourable for an excited electron to reside on the acceptor molecule (A) and a hole to reside on the electron donating molecule (D)1.
An encounter of both charges at a donor–acceptor interface results in the formation of an intermolecular charge-transfer (CT) state which can redissociate into free carriers or recombine to the ground state2.
Moreover, most organic donor–acceptor (D:A) blends offer a rather broadband absorption, while a tunable narrowband absorption would be of particular interest, for example, for spectroscopic applications1819.
Here, the use of direct intermolecular CT absorption could provide an elegant solution: as its absorption onset is determined by the energetic difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor, it can be substantially redshifted as compared to the absorption of neat materials20.
To demonstrate the concept, we use a photo-active blend comprising buckminsterfullerenes (C60) as electron acceptor and zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc) as electron donor whose chemical structures are depicted in Fig.
5b) as donor with an elevated HOMO level34 which reduces the onset energy of CT absorption.
Moreover, the outlined detection principle undergoes a paradigm change: while conventionally excitons diffuse36 from either the absorbing donor or acceptor to a joint D:A interface to decay into CT states, those steps are skipped here in favour of a direct absorption of the latter.
Following previously reported approaches, the realization of an organic NIR spectrometer would require several different donor or acceptor materials with varying optical gaps1851.
In summary, we introduce an innovative class of organic narrowband NIR photodetectors based on mixtures of C60 and donor materials with a high HOMO level.
Star-shaped three-dimensional (3D) twisted configured acceptors are a type of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) which are getting considerable attention of chemists and physicists on account of their promising photovoltaic properties and manifestly promoted the rapid progress of organic solar cells (OSCs).
This report describes the peripheral substitution of the recently reported highly efficient 3D star-shaped acceptor compound, STIC, containing a 2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC) end-capped group and a subphthalocyanine (SubPc) core unit.
Among all investigated molecules, S5 due to the combination of extended conjugation and electron-withdrawing capability of end-capped acceptor moiety A5 is proven as the best candidate owing to promising photovoltaic properties including the lowest band gap (2.27 eV), smallest λe = 0.00232 eV and λh = 0.00483 eV, highest λmax values of 669.38 nm (in gas) and 698.77 nm (in chloroform), and highest Voc = 1.90 V with respect to HOMOPTB7-Th–LUMOacceptor.
Our results suggest that the selected molecules are fine acceptor materials and can be used as electron and/or hole transport materials with excellent photovoltaic properties for OSCs.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) are getting remarkable attention and immense advancement since past 5 years because of molecular design, especially for nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs), polymer donors, and interlayer materials.1−3 Acceptor molecules containing end-capped groups fused with ladder-type electron-donating cores with a linear acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) configuration are considered as a representative type of NFAs.4−6 Indacenodithienothiophene (IDTT) and IDT are the most admired central cores owing to their easy modifications, thermal stabilities, strong electron-donating abilities, and coplanar and rigid structures.7−9 The 2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC) end-cap group along with its derivatives is largely utilized among a number of end groups on account of their large electron affinities and planar structures.10 Three-dimensional (3D) star-shaped twisted configured acceptors are another type of NFAs.11,12 In star-shaped molecules (SSMs), a central core is connected by several (three or more) linear chains.
The excessive aggregation in these star-shaped NFAs is prevented by the nonplanar structure of the acceptor which facilitates the isotropic electron transport.13 The construction of a distorted structure containing numerous end-capped electron-withdrawing groups and electron-donating spatial cores is the most successful and effective strategy to design high-performance 3D star-shaped acceptors.14 The electron-donating nature of truxene, 4,4′-spirobi-(cyclopenta(2,1-b;3,4-b′)dithiophene) (SCPDT), and spirobifluorene (SF) contributes to intramolecular charge transfer (CT) among spatial cores and end-capped electron-withdrawing units.15,16 Diketopyrrolopyrroles (DPPs) and perylene diimides (PDIs) are frequently applied end-cap groups in 3D star-shaped acceptors owing to the high electron mobility, strong absorption, and >5% power conversion efficiency (PCE) of either DPP- or PDI-based 3D star-shaped acceptors.15,17 A PCE of above 10% is achieved from star-shaped 3D acceptors containing rhodanine and benzothiadiazole (BT) as electron-withdrawing units.18 Recently, a report on the synthesis of 3D star-shaped acceptor molecules containing IC as the end group and SF as the core is presented by Chang et al., which indicated that derivatives of IC are promising end-capped moieties for expansion of star-shaped 3D acceptors.19
A noticeable PCE of 8.4% was attained in vacuum-deposited planar heterojunction (PHJ) OSCs using SubPc as the electron acceptor, which is a record efficiency for solar cells based on SubPc derivatives.23 Literature study reveals that introduction of peripheral substituents to SubPc molecules tuned the electronic properties, downshifted the LUMOs, and well matched these SubPc-based derivatives with common donor materials.
Therefore, the 3D star-shaped SubPc-based NFA STIC is peripherally substituted with diverse reported end-capped acceptor groups, and six new molecules (S1–S6) are designed.
For systematic designing, the recently synthesized and reported highly efficient 3D star-shaped acceptor compound STIC24 is used.
The report presented by Hang et al.24 describes that peripheral substitution of SubPc is a useful approach for designing SubPc-based acceptors.
report, three arms of STIC containing the (Z)-2-(2-ethylidene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (A0) acceptor segment are peripherally substituted with six different reported end-capped acceptor moieties, namely, 3-ethyl-5-methylene-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one (A1), 2-(3-ethyl-5-methylene-4-oxothiazolidin-2-ylidene)malononitrile (A2), 2-(5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta-[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)malononitrile (A3), 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (A4), 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarbonitrile (A5), and methyl-6-cyano-1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5-carboxylate (A6), and six new 3D star-shaped SubPc-based NFA molecules (S1–S6) are designed for their potential photovoltaic and optoelectronic characteristics (Scheme 1).
This value is comparable to that of reference molecule R, demonstrating the comparable effectiveness of end-capped acceptor A1 to acceptor units A0 present in reference molecule R. In designed molecule S2, the energy gap is shortly reduced to 2.50 eV, indicating the effect of the end-capped acceptor containing two CN groups present on each arm in A2 as compared to A1 with no CN group.
The Eg of S3 is calculated to be lesser than that of the R, S1, and S2 molecules but greater than that of reference molecules S4–S6, indicating that the effectiveness of end-capped A3 in lowering the Eg is better than that of R, S1, and S2 but smaller than that of the S3–S6 end-capped acceptors, respectively.
The effect of end-capped group modification is observed sharply in the S4 molecule, where the energy gap becomes abridged to 2.31 eV, which is 0.15 eV smaller than that of R. This reduction in Eg value might be due to the joint outcome of electron-withdrawing six F groups and extended conjugation in A4 rather than the efficiencies of the A0, A1, A2, and A3 end-capped acceptors.
The Eg value of S5 is 0.19 eV less than the Eg value of reference molecule R. This reduction in Eg value validates that the combined effect of end-capped acceptor A5 containing two CN groups on each end-capped arm and the extended conjugation present in the S5 molecule successfully lowers the Eg value.
This indicates that the performance of the two CN and two ester units present in end-capped group A6 is better than that of the A0 and A1–A4 acceptor units of R and S1–S4 but slightly smaller than that of the A5 end-capped acceptor present in the S5 molecule, respectively.
In present studies, all designed molecules (S1–S6) have an energy gap lower and comparable to that of reference molecule R. Preceding discussion concludes that the performance of end-capped acceptor groups and band gap values shows an inverse relation and enlarged in the subsequent array: A5 > A6 >A4 >A3 >A0 > A2 >A1.
The LUMO charge density on the other hand in R and S3–S6 is found to be concentrated mainly on end-capped acceptors A0 and A3–A6.
However, in the S1 and S2 designed molecules, the LUMO orbital is populated partially on the bridge thiophene unit and mainly on end-capped acceptors A1 and A2, respectively.
The LUMO level in all investigated acceptor molecules (R and S1–S6) is found to be lower than that of the well-known standard donor molecule PBDT-T, indicating the better CT and conduction of electric current in the designed molecules.
For this analysis, each selected molecule is divided into three fragments including the central SubPc core unit (D), thiophene bridge (B), and end-capped acceptors (A), as shown in Figure 4.
The end-capped acceptors played a significant role in the total population that can be visualized from their contribution in each molecule.
These acceptors (A) are connected to the central SubPc core unit (D) through the bridge (B).
In designed molecule S2, the λmax value slightly increased to 555.87 nm (gas) and 569.77 nm (solvent) as compared to the S1 molecule, indicating the better effect of the end-capped acceptor containing two CN groups present on each arm in A2 as compared to A1 with no CN group.
The end-capped group modifications by the A3 acceptor enhance the λmax values of S3 to 605.21 nm (gas) and 624.34 nm (chloroform) from 596.73 nm (gas) and 616.92 nm (chloroform) of reference molecule R. The λmax values of S3 are computed to be larger than those of the R, S1, and S2 molecules but smaller than those of the S4–S6 molecules, indicating that the effectiveness of A3 in red-shifting the absorption maximum is better than that of R, S1, and S2 and smaller than that of S3–S6 end-capped acceptors, respectively.
This shifting of the λmax values toward a longer range might be due to the mutual result of electron-withdrawing six F groups and extended conjugation existing in A4 in contrast to the efficiencies of the A0, A1, A2, and A3 end-capped acceptors.
Red shifting validates that the combined effect of end-capped acceptor A5 containing two CN groups on each end-capped arm and extended conjugation present in the S5 molecule successfully shifts the λmax value to a greater value.
The results of the S5 molecule confirmed the better competence of end-capped acceptor moiety A5 owing to the strong pulling character shared with extensive conjugation of A5 as compared to the A0–A4 and A6 end-capped acceptors of the R, S1–S4, and S6 molecules, respectively.
This indicates that the performance of the two CN and two ester units present in end-capped acceptor A6 is better than that of the A0 and A1–A4 acceptor units of R and S1–S4 but slightly smaller than the A5 end-capped acceptor performance present in the S5 molecule, respectively.
The performance of the end-capped acceptors is found to be in the order: A5 > A6 > A4 >A3 > A0 > A2 > A1, which exactly matches with the end-capped group performance found in the reduction of energy band gaps.
It can be seen from Figures 5 and 6 that end-capped acceptor moieties strongly affected the λmax values by causing a red shift in absorption spectra61,62 with low excitation energies and >92% transition from the HOMO to LUMO + 1 in all studied molecules.
The S5 molecule has the least value of electron reorganization, being the vital molecule for fine CT or mobility of electrons between acceptor and donor moieties.39,40,64−66 On the other hand, the hole reorganization (λh) energy value of R is noted as 0.00502 Eh.
For fulfilling the terms of eq 4, the well-known standard donor polymeric material PBDB-T with HOMO and LUMO values of −5.33 and −2.92 eV, respectively,69 is used in this study and its HOMO level is compared with the LUMO levels of our acceptor molecules (R and S1–S6).
The results obtained from eq 4 calculated with respect to the HOMOPBDB-T–LUMOacceptor energy gap are displayed in Figure 7.
Value of open-circuit voltage (Voc) of reference R and designed molecules S1–S6 with respect to the standard donor polymer PBDB-T.
The RVoc value with respect to HOMOPBTB-T–LUMOacceptor is computed to be 1.69 V. The Voc value in designed molecules S1 and S2 is found to be slightly smaller but comparable to that of reference molecule R, with values of 1.46 and 1.55 V, respectively.
Overall, the highest Voc value of 1.90 V among all studied molecules is observed in S5, which is 0.21 V larger than that of R. The declining order of Voc values for all studied molecules with respect to the HOMOPBTB-T–LUMOacceptor energy gap is found to be S5 > S6 > S4 > S3 > R > S2 > S1, which is found to be in good agreement with the increasing order of the HOMO–LUMO energy gap of S5 < S6 < S4 < S3 < R < S2 < S1, respectively, which is quite fascinating to design and develop high-performance 3D star-shaped SubPc-based NFA molecules with enhanced optoelectronic properties.
The Voc value mainly depends upon the level of LUMO of the acceptor and the level of HOMO of the donor as we mentioned above.
A low-lying LUMO of the acceptor increases the shifting of electrons from the HOMO of donor molecules, which causes a higher Voc and directly enhances the optoelectronic properties.
Molecular orbital diagram of the investigated molecules with the PBDB-T donor.
It is evident from Figure 8 that the LUMO level of the acceptor investigated molecules (R and S1–S6) is lying below the LUMO level of the donor PBDB-T polymer.
This alignment facilitates the easy shifting of charge density from the donor polymer to the designed acceptor molecules, which leads to easy CT and capacity of conduction from the donor to the acceptor unit and hence better optoelectronic properties of the investigated molecules.
This is due to end-capped acceptor group A5 and extended conjugation present in the S5 molecule, which lead to the robust Voc value as compared to other investigated molecules.
Among all studied molecules (R and S1–S6), acceptor molecule S5 has the lowest energy gap, lowest transition energy, highest absorption maximum, lowest reorganization energy values of electrons and holes, and highest open-circuit voltage and hence has the highest electron-transfer rate.
Thus, the S5 acceptor molecule is selected from all investigated molecules (R and S1–S5) in our study to form a complex with the donor polymer PBDB-T.
CT between S5 and the polymer donor PBDB-T.
To some extent, the terminal arms containing end-capped acceptor groups and alkyl chains of the donor polymer PBDB-T wrap around each other, which assist in excellent CT between the donor and acceptor units.
The FMO diagram illustrates that the HOMO is basically present on the PBDB-T donor polymer, while the charge density for the LUMO is populated on the acceptor S5 molecule (Figure 10).
Here, CT occurs from the PBDB-T donor to the S5 acceptor compound as shown in Figure 10.
The HOMO part covers the central portion of the donor molecule, while the LUMO portion extends to the end-caped acceptor arm of the designed S5 molecule.
We receive solid evidence from the density shift from the core unit of the PBDB-T polymer donor to the end-capped acceptor of S5, indicating excellent transfer of charges.
The orbital analysis evidently represents that HOMO-to-LUMO excitation is in fact CT from the donor polymer unit to acceptor designed molecule S5.
Such a transition in which charge is transferred from the donor to acceptor units provides vital confirmation of CT between different moieties and reveals the superposition of orbitals among molecules.
TDM analysis describes the performance of solar cells in a way how electron density moves from the donor to acceptor molecules through π-conjugation within the molecule along with the insights of exciton generation and their utilization.
These molecules were divided according to their number of atoms (at the bottom and left side of Figure 11 and electron density on the right y-axis) including core (D), acceptor (A), and bridge (B) segments.
The electron coherence behavior of R and S1–S6 confirms that charge coherence successfully shifts from the donor core to the bridge, which transfers the electron density without trapping them toward end-capped acceptors.
Since reference R is a recently reported acceptor molecule being used is solar cells.
Similarly, the declining order of Voc values for all studied molecules with respect to the HOMOPBTB-T–LUMOacceptor energy gap is found to be S5 > S6 > S4 > S3 > R > S2 > S1, which is found to be in good agreement with the increasing order of HOMO–LUMO energy gap: S5 < S6 < S4 < S3 < R < S2 < S1, respectively.
The open-circuit voltages with respect to HOMOPBTB-T–LUMOacceptor are found to be larger than the R values in S3–S6 (1.71–1.90 V) and comparable to R in the S1 and S2 molecules.
Among all investigated molecules, S5 due to the combination of extended conjugation and electron-withdrawing capability of end-capped acceptor moiety A5 is proven as the best candidate owing to promising photovoltaic properties including the lowest band gap (2.27 eV), smallest λe = 0.00232 eV and λh = 0.00483 eV, highest λmax values of 669.38 nm (in the gas) and 698.77 nm (in chloroform), and highest Voc = 1.90 V with respect to HOMOPTB7-Th–LUMOacceptor.
Based on a low donor content (4.0 wt%) in the BDP‐OMe:C60 material system, the device shows an EQE beyond 100% at a rather low bias of −1 V, leading to a D * above 1013 Jones.
[  25 ,  26 ,  27  ] It has been noticed that a low concentration of one material type (donor or acceptor) is necessary to trigger PM in polymeric systems, while fewer studies are available for small molecule based devices.
demonstrated that hole transport is no longer limited at around 5 wt% donor content for the TAPC:C60 material system.
[  28  ] Therefore, we employ a 4.0 wt% donor concentration to fabricate our devices.
Aiming to explore the mechanism under extreme circumstances, devices comprising 0.5 wt% donor concentration are also investigated.
This observation can be attributed to the increased donor content since BDP‐OMe is an excellent NIR absorber, shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Information).
Optical field distribution of PM‐OPDs a) at 0.5 wt% donor concentration and b) at 4.0 wt% donor concentration.
At −10 V, the EQE exceeds 100% for 0.5 wt% devices, indicating that a sufficient hole accumulation can be formed at the anode at such a low doping concentration in this donor‐acceptor system, leading to increased electron injection.
Benefiting from the absorption of the donor, the 4.0 wt% device shows an amplification over 600% at 780 nm without a noticeable decrease in the short wavelength range.
As shown in Figure 3b, the dark current density (J d) is notably reduced by increasing the donor concentration and reaches as low as 3.6 × 10–7 A cm–2 at −10 V, implying a very low shot noise.
Since 4 wt% of donor molecules gives us reliable performance with a low dark current and a high EQE in the NIR spectral region, we focus on this concentration in the upcoming discussion.
a) EQE spectra of PM‐OPDs based on BDP‐OMe:C60 material system at different donor concentrations under −10 V. b) J–V characteristics of PM‐OPDs based on BDP‐OMe:C60 material system at different donor concentrations.
As we further increase the reverse bias to −10 V, the EQE goes above 600% in the NIR region, which is ascribed to the synergetic effect of increased donor absorption and pronounced PM phenomenon, with the highest R approaching 4 A W–1.
In this work, a fully vacuum‐processed PM‐OPD, comprising 4.0 wt% BDP‐OMe donor concentration, is reported.
Thus, the electrons diffuse from the n-type material to the p-type material (and holes from the p-type to the n-type material), leaving a SCR formed by immobile, ionized acceptors and donors on the p- and n-side of the junction, respectively.
Far from the junction, the density of charge carriers for completely ionized donors and acceptors in the conduction or valence band is given by nD and nA, respectively.
Currently, there seems to be an agreement that the energy difference between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor modified by the polaron binding energy controls the low temperature limit [47].
where EDA is the energy difference between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor modified by the polaron binding energy.
The field of organic solar cells (OSCs) has witnessed tremendous progress over the past two decades owing to their immense potential to be lightweight, solution-processable, mechanically flexible and their ability to be semitransparent.1 The emergence of nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) materials has led to significant improvement in OSCs’ performance,2−5 with power conversion efficiency (PCE) crossing the 18% mark for single-junction OSCs.6
(a) Normalized UV–vis absorption spectra of P2G in solution and thin film; (b) secondary electron cutoff of the UP spectra depicting the change in the work function of P2G modified ITO, Ag, and Au electrodes; (c) schematic showing the device structure and the energy levels of the state-of-the-art donor (PM6), acceptor (Y6), and P2G, measured using UPS and LE-IPES (refer to SI for details).
The P2G EA is close to the EA typically measured for NFA materials31 and is therefore expected to facilitate electron transfer efficiently between the acceptor and the cathode.
P2G was demonstrated as a versatile CIL material that can effectively modify the work function of a range of electrode materials, can be deposited via printing methods, and can be used successfully with photoactive layers based on several high-performing donor–acceptor blends.
Many strategies have been developed for light management in OPV to decrease optical losses and enhance power conversion efficiency (PCE), including the design of more advanced donor/acceptor systems [8], as well as the development of new ternary or tandem SCs [9,10] and light trapping nanostructures [7,11].
Chemical and repeat unit structures of acceptor and donor polymer molecules used in the study are shown in Figure S1.
A solution of PTB7-Th (PBDTTT-EFT, Poly-[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo [1,2-b;4,5-b’]-dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno [3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2–6-diyl)], PCE10, Ossila Ltd, Sheffield, UK ) and nonfullerene acceptor ITIC (3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone)- 5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno [2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′]-dithiophene, 1-Material Inc., Quebec, Canada) in chlorobenzene with a concentration of 14 mg mL−1 (PTB7-Th:ITIC (1:1)) was spin-cast at 1000 rpm for 60 s. The photoactive layer films were vacuumed for 10 min.
The photoactive layer consists of a blend of an electron-donating polymer and an acceptor molecule.
One of the most studied classes of acceptor molecules is fullerene derivatives, such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC60BM) or [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM), but more recently non-fullerene acceptor molecules or polymers have increased in popularity.
The donor and acceptor material are typically processed together from a chlorinated and/or aromatic solvent into a thin liquid film.
The morphology of the donor/acceptor active layer is formed during deposition when the solvent evaporates and can later be altered through post-production treatments [4,5].
The morphology will affect the charge transfer from the donor to the acceptor, as well as the charge transport to the electrodes, and is consequently a crucial factor determining the solar cell performance [6,7,8,9].
Blends of a quinoxaline-based donor polymer (TQ1) [20] and PC70BM (Figure 1) [10,21,22], have been shown to be a material combination that yields solar cell efficiencies up to 7% [23].
The combination of high dielectric constant and low effective mass promotes both Wannier-Mott exciton separation and effective ionization of donor and acceptor defects.
The computed bulk ionization potential and electron affinity of 5.7 and 4.1 eV are consistent with the use of TiO2 (electron acceptor) and Au (gold acceptor) in photovoltaic devices.8 This ionization potential is comparable to thin-film solar cell absorbers such as Cu2ZnSnS4,44 which implies that other device configurations, for example, a Mo back-contact (to replace Au) and a CdS buffer layer (to replace TiO2), are possible.
The polymerized small-molecule acceptors have attracted great attention for application as polymer acceptor in all-polymer solar cells recently.
The modification of small molecule acceptor building block and the π-bridge linker is an effective strategy to improve the photovoltaic performance of the polymer acceptors.
In this work, we synthesized a new polymer acceptor PG-IT2F which is a modification of the representative polymer acceptor PY-IT by replacing its upper linear alkyl side chains on the small molecule building block with branched alkyl chains and attaching difluorene substituents on its thiophene π-bridge linker.
Through this synergistic optimization, PG-IT2F possesses more suitable phase separation, increased charge transportation, better exciton dissociation, lower bimolecular recombination, and longer charge transfer state lifetime than PY-IT in their polymer solar cells with PM6 as polymer donor.
This work indicates that the synergistic regulation of small molecule acceptor building block and π-bridge linker plays a key role in designing and developing highly efficient polymer acceptors.The modification of small molecule acceptor building block and π−bridge linker is effective to improve photovoltaic performance.
Recently, the PSCs based on wide bandgap polymer donor and narrow bandgap small-molecule acceptor (SMA) have achieved power conversion efficiency (PCE) over 18%5–7.
In comparison with the SMAs-based PSCs, all-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs) with n-type conjugated polymer as acceptor have their unique merits of good morphological stability, high light-irradiation stability and greater mechanical stress strength, which make them more suitable for the application of flexible devices8–11.
However, the PCE of all-PSCs lags behind that of the SMAs-based PSCs due to the lack of high performance polymer acceptors in early research12,13
In 2017, a strategy known as polymerized small molecule acceptor (PSMA) was proposed by Li and Zhang et al.14, which is composed of a narrow bandgap SMA as main building block copolymerized with a π-bridge linking unit (or called as linker).
This strategy conferred the polymer acceptors to the advantages of SMAs with broad and strong absorption and suitable electronic energy levels, in combination of the advantages of the polymers with good mechanical flexibility and high thermal and opto-stability15.
Therefore, introducing F atom into π-bridge of PMSAs may be one of the methods to improve the electron transport property of the polymer acceptors.
In 2020, Yang et al.17 synthesized a PSMA PY-IT with a regular (inner) connection between the SMA molecular backbone and the thiophene linker in the polymer, which shows a red-shifted absorption and higher PCE of 15.05% for the all-PSCs with PM6 as donor.
c Energy level diagram of the PSMAs and PM6 donor.
c Energy level diagram of the PSMAs and PM6 donor.
Thermogravimetric analysis was performed to measure the thermal stabilities of these acceptors, and all the PSMAs exhibit decomposition temperatures of ~340 °C with 5% weight loss under nitrogen atmosphere (Supplementary Fig.
To optimize the photovoltaic performance of the polymer acceptors, various device fabrication conditions were carefully screened, and the experimental results were summarized in Supplementary Tables 2–4.
To understand the improved Jsc and FF of the all-PSCs based on the polymer acceptors from PY-IT2F, PG-IT to PG-IT2F, the hole (µh) and electron (µe) mobilities of the three polymer active layers blended with PM6 polymer donor were characterized by the SCLC method (Supplementary Fig.
Generally, the exciton dissociation probabilities (Pdiss) of the devices based on these polymer acceptors were estimated by the ratio of Jph to saturation photocurrent density (Jsat).
At first, we obtained the exciton spectrum of the polymer acceptor PG-IT by photoexciting its pristine film with a pump wavelength at 840 nm.
3b, at early time, in addition to PG-IT exciton peaks, another GSB also appeared at 636 nm simultaneously, which is ascribed to the GSB of polymer donor PM6.
After 10 ps, exciton features at 560 nm and 720 nm decayed and the spectrum is dominated by a long-lived CT state which mainly includes PM6 donor GSB peak at 636 nm and PG-IT acceptor GSB peak at 840 nm.
The corresponding surface energy of the polymer donor (γd) and acceptors (γa) (Fig.
4a) reveals information of the miscibility between the donor and acceptors, according to the equation2\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\chi }_{{da}}=K{(\sqrt{{\gamma }_{d}}-\sqrt{{\gamma }_{a}})}^{2}$$\end{document}χda=K(γd−γa)2where K is a constant.
The very small χ values correspond to strong D/A interactions and excessive miscibility of the donor and acceptor (Fig.
This result indicates that the branched alkyl side chains does decrease the miscibility of the Y6-based polymer acceptors with PM6, which meets our original goal of adjusting the polymer miscibility by introducing branched alkyl chain.
The TEM images of the PM6:PG-IT2F blend film demonstrate a more-defined phase separation of donor and acceptor with a bicontinuous interpenetrating network.
It is worth noting that after blending with PM6 polymer donor, the CCL of PG-IT in the blend film is significantly reduced from 23.5 Å to 19.7 Å.
The different CCL changes of the two acceptors after blending with PM6 polymer donor may be due to their different miscibility with PM6.Fig.
In summary, the devices based on PY-IT2F obtain a relatively higher charge carrier mobility and a longer carrier lifetime owing to the introduction of F substituents on its thiophene linking unit, but its excessive miscibility with PM6 polymer donor leads to the more bimolecular recombination, which results in the lower Jsc and FF of the all-PSCs based on PY-IT2F.
Compared with PY-IT2F and PG-IT, PG-IT2F with the branched alkyl upper side chains and difluorothiophene π-bridge linker has higher electron mobility, suitable miscibility with PM6 polymer donor and appropriate morphology of its active layer blending with PM6, leading to superior charge transfer performance, more balanced charge carrier mobility, longer CT state lifetime and decreased charge recombination, which results in the highest PCE with higher Jsc, FF for the PG-IT2F-based all-PSCs.
The PSMAs with the fluorinated π-bridge linker (PY-IT2F, PG-IT2F) possess increased electron mobility than those of the non-fluorinated PSMAs (PY-IT, PG-IT), which affords more balanced charge carrier transport with longer charge carrier lifetime in the active layer blending with PM6 polymer donor.
Polymer donor PM6 was purchased from Solarmer Materials Inc.
The synthetic routes of the polymer acceptors PY-IT2F, PG-IT, and PG-IT2F are shown in Supplementary Figs. 1–5.
The detailed synthetic procedures and characterizations of the chemical structures of the monomers and the polymer acceptors are described in the Supplementary method section.
Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) based on non-fused conjugated structures have more potential to realize low-cost organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells.
Overall, this work provides insight into molecule design of the non-fused NFAs from the aspect of molecular geometry control.Non-fullerene acceptors based on non-fused conjugated structures have potential for realizing low-cost organic photovoltaic cells, owing to its synthetic simplicity.
Benefiting from the development of various new OPV materials, especially the fused-ring non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) with the so-called A-D-A structure, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of OPV cells under the illumination of simulated solar light (AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2) have been significantly improved4–10.
In 2015, a new A-D-A-structured acceptor namely ITIC based on a seven fused-ring building block (DTIDT) was designed by Zhan et al., which demonstrated the possibility of utilizing NFA to realize high PCE4,5.
From the point of view of the molecular design of non-fused acceptors, the planarity and rigidity are crucial to the aggregation and charge transfer of the acceptors.
On the one hand, the more planar configuration of the molecule ensures the effective π−π stacking between the acceptors.
On the other hand, the enhanced rigidity of the molecule can reduce the rotation of the C−C single bond and improve the conformational stability of the acceptors.
Due to these favourable properties, the A4T-16-based cells yield an outstanding PCE of 15.2%, which is not only the highest value among the OPV cells based on the non-fused electron acceptors but also at the same level as that of the fused-ring NFAs.
The calculated distribution of the frontier molecular orbitals of the three acceptors is shown in Fig. 2b.
Electrochemical cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were performed to determine the LUMO levels of the acceptors, and as demonstrated in Fig.
Overall, these three materials should be good acceptors in terms of the absorption spectra and the LUMO levels.
From the point of view of molecular energy level and absorption spectrum matching, PBDB-TF, a broadly used donor material, should be a good candidate to work with the three non-fused NFAs in OPV cells.Fig.
d The electron mobility plots of the three acceptors.
d The electron mobility plots of the three acceptors.
It has also been recognized that the EQEEL of an OPV cell can be influenced by the interaction between the donor and acceptor materials, but its maximum EQEEL value depends more on the component with the relatively narrower bandgap.
In addition, we measured the electron mobilities (µe) of these acceptors in parallel by space-charge-limited-current (SCLC) measurement52 (see Fig.
To evaluate the photovoltaic performance of these non-fused acceptors, we fabricated the OPV cells with a device architecture of ITO/PEDOT: PSS/active layer/PF3N-Br/Ag.
Considering the simpler structure and the relatively high performance of these acceptors, we calculated the figure-of-merits (FoM) values of these NFAs and found that A4T-16 processes higher FoM value among these high-performance NFAs (Supplementary Table 7).Fig.
In consideration that the non-radiative energy loss of the neat A4T-16 film is at the same level as Y6 and the non-radiative energy losses of the D: A blend films can also be tuned by changing the interaction between the donor and acceptor materials62,63, there should be much room for reducing the non-radiative energy loss of the A4T-16-based cells.
For this purpose, PBDB-TF should be replaced by other polymer donor materials.
Notably, the observed annular diffraction pattern is similar to that of the fullerene acceptors, suggesting that the 3D network structure mentioned above will endow more electron channels for favourable charge transfer in this acceptor.
The above results confirm that the 3D electron transport network observed in the A4T-16 single crystal can be formed in the A4T-16 film, and also indicate the non-fused cores had a great effect on the molecular crystallinities of these acceptors.Fig.
Here, we selected a few representative polymer donors including PBDB-T, J52-2F, PTO2 and PBDB-TCl (Supplementary Fig.
7Universality of A4T-16 and device stability.aJ−V curves, b EQEEL curves of polymer donors: A4T-16-based cells.
aJ−V curves, b EQEEL curves of polymer donors: A4T-16-based cells.
Nevertheless, it is very clear that no matter which donor is used, the cells exhibit decent JSCs and FFs.
7b and Table 2, for the PTO2:A4T-16-based cell, the ΔEnon-rad value is as low as 0.214 eV, which is even smaller than the aforementioned Y6-based cell; for the PBDB-T:A4T-16-based cell, this value is as large as 0.395 eV, resulting in a low VOC of 0.735 V. Overall, these results clearly demonstrate that A4T-16 is an excellent non-fused acceptor with good universality and has potential to achieve higher photovoltaic performance.
Although further studies on the photochemical stability of these acceptors are still needed, the current results already demonstrate the superiority of A4T-16 and Y6 in realizing stable and efficient OPV cells.
Device physics studies indicate the PBDB-TF:A4T-16-based OPV cells have less energetic disorder than the analogues, and by blending with the other polymer donors, the non-radiative energy loss of the A4T-16-based cells can be as low as 0.214 eV, which is even smaller than that of the Y6-based cell.
Nevertheless, the typical efficiency of PT based photovoltaic devices reported so far is much lower than those of the prevailing push-pull type conjugated polymer donors.
Recent studies have underscored that the excessively low miscibility between PT and nonfullerene acceptor is the major reason accounting for the unfavorable active layer morphology and the inferior performance of OPVs based on a well-known PT, namely PDCBT-Cl and a non-halogenated nonfullerene acceptor IDIC.
How to manipulate the miscibility between PT and acceptor molecule is important for further improving the device efficiency of this class of potentially low-cost blend systems.
With the increased number of F atoms in IDIC, the resulting acceptors exhibited enhanced miscibility with PDCBT-Cl, and the domain sizes of the blend films were reduced substantially.
This study demonstrates that varying the number of F atoms in the acceptors is a feasible way to manipulate the molecular interaction and the film morphology toward high-performance polythiophene:nonfullerene based OPVs.
Much progress has been acquired in recent years profited from the discovery of a series of novel PTs and nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) (Liang et al., 2019; Xu et al., 2019; He et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2020; Wang Q. et al., 2020; Ren et al., 2021).
Although considerable progress has been made, the efficiency of PT-based OSCs still significantly lags behind that of the devices based on push-pull type polymer donors (Zhang et al., 2016; Liu et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2019; Wu et al., 2020; Wu et al., 2021; Zhang et al., 2021).
Further on, the structures of acceptors also exhibit significant impacts on mixing thermodynamic behaviors of the blends.
 (A) Illustration of the Flory–Huggins interaction parameter (χ)-volume composition of acceptor (ϕ) phase diagram for the hypo-miscible system.
Compared to the PDCBT-Cl, the acceptors displayed higher δ D and δ P values but lower δ H values which were mainly caused by the differences of polar groups.
Motivated by the above analysis, herein we incorporated mono-fluorinated and double-fluorinated terminals of IDIC, named IDIC-2F and IDIC-4F, respectively, as model systems to test a hypothesis that fluorination of acceptors promotes the miscibility of the hypo-miscible blend system, PDCBT-Cl:IDIC (Figure 1C).
The miscibility between PDCBT-Cl and acceptors was promoted gradually with the increased number of F atoms in terminals.
These results demonstrate that introducing F atoms in end groups of acceptors is a feasible and effective way to finely tune the molecular interaction especially for the hypo-miscible systems and further prompt the increase in the performance of PT:NFA-based photovoltaic devices.
The donor material PDCBT-Cl (M n = 18.7 kg/mol, PDI = 1.73) used in this work was synthesized according to our previous report (Wang et al., 2019).
All acceptors (IDIC, IDIC-2F and IDIC-4F) were synthesized by Knoevenagel condensation as previously reported (Lin et al., 2016).
The basic optical and electrochemical properties of the acceptors were firstly measured.
In solution, the absorption maximums (λmaxsol) of the acceptors displayed a slight redshift from 661 to 671 nm with the increased number of fluorine atoms in terminals.
From solution to film, all acceptors showed an obvious red shift of the absorption maximum and more obvious vibronic absorption peaks could be observed implying an increased intermolecular interaction.
Moreover, all acceptors displayed the complementary absorption spectra with PDCBT-Cl.
The thin-film cyclic voltammograms of acceptors were recorded to calculate the energy levels of materials and the potential was calibrated by ferrocene/ferrocenium (Fc/Fc+).
The best performing devices delivered the open-circuit voltage (V oc) of 0.95, 0.91 and 0.83 V for IDIC, IDIC-2F and IDIC-4F-based blends, respectively, which could be well explained by the differences of LUMO levels of the acceptors.
Compared to the reference system PDCBT-Cl:IDIC with FF of 71.5% and J sc of 12.7 mA cm−2, the blends based on fluorinated acceptors exhibited the apparently improved FF and J sc values of 72.6%, 13.2 mA cm−2 for IDIC-2F and 72.5%, 15.0 mA cm−2 for IDIC-4F, respectively.
Particularly, multiple diffraction features could be observed at the q range of 0.3 ∼ 0.9 Å for IDIC and IDIC-2F-based blends, indicating the crystallization of acceptors after annealing especially for PDCBT-Cl:IDIC-2F system which displayed the smallest g value and the highest L c.
With the amounts of acceptors increasing, the melting temperature of PDCBT-Cl was decreased gradually and IDIC-4F-based blends exhibited the steep and continuous descent as illustrated in Supplemntary Figure S7.
vm and vs identify the molar volume of the constitutional unit of PDCBT-Cl and acceptors.
ϕ s is the volume fraction of acceptors, and R represents the ideal gas constant.
Measurements of melting point depression to estimate the miscibility of PDCBT-Cl:IDIC-xF blends as a function of the volume fraction of acceptors (A) IDIC (B) IDIC-2F (C) IDIC-4F.
Primarily, the miscibility between polymer and NFAs was gradually decreased with the increased number of F atoms in end groups of the acceptors.
For the hypo-miscible system, PDCBT-Cl:IDIC, the oversized phase separation with the less physical interfacial area of donor:acceptor for the as-cast film will induce serious monomolecular recombination and lead to a low J sc (12.7 mA cm−2).
Beyond an apparent impact on initial performance, the miscibility of donor and acceptor has a significant influence on device stability likewise due to the non-equilibrium state of the blend films (Ye et al., 2018a; Ghasemi et al., 2021).
As given in Figure 7B, the photovoltaic devices displayed enhanced stability with the improvement of donor:acceptor miscibility.
Consequently, the above experimental observations indicated that the device performance and aging stability could be simultaneously improved via fluorination in terminals of acceptors.
They discovered that the intermolecular interactions of donor and acceptor were enhanced with more fluorine atoms incorporated in acceptors (Xu et al., 2020).
The corresponding results indicated that manipulation of fluorination for acceptors would be a simple and viable way to regulate the molecular interaction.
Combining with our experimental results, fluorination of acceptors probably could precisely control the intermolecular interaction for hypo-miscible systems.
Low-cost blend systems are expected to be further prompted by precisely adjusting the location and numbers of fluorination of both donor and acceptor molecules.
The donor:acceptor miscibility was gradually decreased with the reduced contents of fluorination, leading to the more serious phase separation caused by the larger driving force.
Simultaneously, this study also provides a feasible means for miscibility tuning toward high-efficiency devices based on polythiophene:acceptor systems.
Many macromolecular systems, including carbon nanostructures (CNs), have been synthesized and investigated as acceptors in photovoltaic devices.
This study focuses on the covalent functionalization of carbon nanoonion (CNO) surfaces with ferrocene moieties to obtain donor–acceptor systems involving CNOs as acceptors.
In this study, for the first time, the CNO-based derivatives were applied as acceptors in the active layer of photovoltaic devices.
This study is the first to use large CNO-based derivatives as acceptors in organic photovoltaic devices, and a power conversion efficiency as high as 1.89% was achieved.This study is the first to use carbon nanoonion-based derivatives as acceptors in organic photovoltaic devices (PCE = 1.89%).
In recent years, carbon nanostructured-based donor–acceptor dyads have been widely explored for organic photovoltaic (OPV) applications.
The active layer, which is composed of a polymer matrix and carbon nanostructures (CNs), allows for exciton dissociation in a strong electric field with CNs as the electron acceptor/transporter.1 Frequently used donor moieties include polythiophenes,2,3 phthalocyanines,4,5 porphyrins6,7 and ferrocenes.8–10
Since 1994, C60 and its derivatives have been among the most frequently used acceptors in heterojunction OPV cells.11–14 Upon electron reduction, C60 presents a low reorganization energy.15 This property is due to the spherical rigid carbon framework and the delocalized π-electron system that contribute to the stabilization of the incoming charge with minimal structural or solution polarization changes.16 The delocalization of electrons or holes within the spherical carbon framework (diameter = 7.5 Å) offers unique opportunities for the stabilization of charges.17 Therefore, C60 can lead to fast photoinduced charge-separated (CS) states.
Multi-shelled fullerenes, also known as carbon nanoonions (CNOs), can also be used as the acceptor in photovoltaic systems.
These unusual properties of CNOs prompted us to use them in OPVs as acceptor moieties in the active layer.
Since then, to the best of our knowledge, no reports on the use of CNOs as acceptor in the active layer of OPVs have been demonstrated.31,32 Notably, these CNs were used as hole collection layers in zinc-phthalocyanine-based OPV solar cells.
For the first time, the potential of such systems as acceptors in active layers in OPV devices is reported.
The excited-state properties were examined by steady-state fluorescence measurements to probe the excitation of the donors.
Therefore, the fact that the functionalization of CNOs may proceed with different yields is a consequence of not only different synthetic routes but also steric effects between donor groups on the surface.
When comparing the behaviour of Fc-COOH to that of CNO 2, CNO 4, CNO 6 and CNO 8, the oxidation potential clearly shifts from +0.44 V to more negative potentials, reflecting the acceptor property of the CNOs (Fig.
It has to be underlined that CNOs are used as an acceptor' in our OPV cells.
The photoactive materials were P3HT as the electron donor and an CNO-Fc derivative as the acceptor.
The CNOs-Fc were used as acceptors in the active layer of bulk heterojunction OPV cells.
This study reveals that the highest PCE conversion was obtained for the OPV device (1.89%) where the CNO 4 derivative was incorporated into the active layer of the OPV as an acceptor of electrons.
Here we report a new molecular donor, benzodithiophene terthiophene rhodanine (BTR), which exhibits good processability, nematic liquid crystalline behaviour and excellent optoelectronic properties.
report a nematic liquid crystalline molecular electron donor material used in thick layers.
A handful of polymeric electron donor materials and only one molecular donor have been reported in devices that reached this benchmark8910111213.
The desirable donor phase in BHJ OPVs needs well-ordered nanocrystals with sizes comparable to the exciton diffusion length for efficient charge generation.
In this work, a new molecular electron donor material, benzodithiophene terthiophene rhodanine (BTR), with a benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) core and rhodanine peripheral units was developed and used in OPV devices giving PCEs >9%.
Because the open-circuit voltage (Voc) is largely determined by the HOMO–LUMO gap of the donor and acceptor, a deep-lying HOMO of BTR can potentially support a high Voc.
In combination with fullerene acceptor [6,6]-phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), whose LUMO level is around −4.0 eV, the LUMO energy offset of 0.48 eV between BTR and PC71BM should provide enough driving force for exciton dissociation34.
The SVA treatment substantially enhanced the mobility by one order of magnitude to 1.6 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1, which is comparable to or greater than those reported for high-performing donor:acceptor blend systems731414445.
In summary, we present a new molecular donor, BTR, which possesses a rigid and flat backbone and a large number of flexible side chains that could work synergistically to provide excellent processability, nematic liquid crystal behaviour and optoelectronic properties.
The BTR donor phase was rendered in pink colour, while the PC71BM acceptor phase was represented by empty space in model movies.
The substrates were transferred to a glove box filled with dried nitrogen, where a chloroform solution of the donor–acceptor blend was spin coated at various spin rates on top of the substrate.
One of the most commonly studied polymeric emissive layers in OLEDs is the blend of poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene-alt-benzothiadiazole) (F8BT) (acceptor and guest) and poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene) (F8) (donor and host) [26,27,28,29,30,31].
Here, we synthesized a series of thermally stable high-extinction coefficient donor-substituted benz[cd]indole-capped SWIR squaraine dyes.
We then combined these donors with the dicyanomethylene-substituted squaraine acceptor unit, to obtain the dicyanomethylene-functionalized squaraine DCSQ family.
For optoelectronic device applications, these SWIR dyes possess some potential drawbacks, such as a decreased photo- and thermal stability as well as incompatibility with neutral electron acceptors in blend films (cyanines), limited solubility (rylenes) or low extinction coefficients (charge-transfer dyes).
Squaraines contain an electron-deficient central four-membered ring and two electron-donating groups in a donor-acceptor-donor configuration with a resonance stabilized π-conjugated zwitterionic structure.
Appropriate choice of the donor and acceptor moieties allows tuning the optical properties of the dyes, and the combination of strong donors with strong acceptors as well as a high degree of conjugation leads to a bathochromic shift of the absorption maximum [36,37].
Here, we expand the family of SQ dyes and increased the donor strength of the benz[cd]indolium unit by coupling with phenyl-, carbazole-, and thiophene moieties at the 6-position of the substituent.
In a second series of squaraines (the DCSQ family), we coupled theses donors with the dicyanomethylene-substituted squaraine acceptor unit.
To study the influence of the donor substitution on the properties of the squaraine dyes, four different donor building blocks based on the benz[cd]indole heterocycle were synthesized as shown in Scheme 1.
The dicyanomethylene acceptor group induced a substantial redshift of the absorption maxima, and the corresponding dyes absorb between 958 nm (DCSQ1) and 1014 nm (DCSQ4), see Table 1.
The Stokes’ shifts are larger for the DCSQ dyes with a discernible trend that the shifts increase with the π-conjugation and donor strength of the aromatic substituents for both dye families.
Introduction of the dicyanomethylene acceptor group decreased both the HOMO and LUMO levels, while the second half wave oxidation potential was hardly influenced.
Onset decomposition temperatures of around 200 °C have been reported for related squaraine dyes with different donor substituents [47,56], pointing to the lability of the central four-membered ring.
As SWIR absorber for the PD part, we chose DCSQ1 from the DCSQ dye family and charges were photogenerated using a dye donor/PCBM acceptor heterojunction.
In ongoing synthetic work, we are trying to shift the dye absorption further into the SWIR range by increasing the donor strength and using different acceptors on the squaric acid core.
As we found for the DCSQ family, bulky substitution at the acceptor unit locks the dyes in the cis conformation, resulting in allowed optical transitions in the visible.
This study explores the photovoltaic properties of this molecule as a donor, with a fullerene derivative as an acceptor, using solution processing in single junction and double junction tandem solar cells.
To separate the strongly bound Frenkel excitons in organic films, the donor-acceptor concept was proposed4.
So far, fullerene C60 and C70, as well their derivatives, are most successful acceptors for OSCs.
Much work has been done to rationalize the energy levels and bandgap of donor materials in order to maximize photovoltaic efficiency.
Due to twisting of the thienyl plane with the BDT plane, this 2-D conjugated BDT-T unit using an alkyltheinyl group is a weaker electron donor unit in comparison with the BDT unit with an alkoxy group for use in photovoltaic polymers, thus giving rise to a lower HOMO (highest occupied molecular orbital) level2528.
A deep HOMO level is desirable for obtaining high open-circuit voltage (VOC) since maximum value of the VOC is determined by the energy difference between the HOMO level of the donor and LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) level of the acceptor30.
For conjugated molecules with acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) structure, many promising end-group acceptors have been reported; these include dicyanovinyl3334, alkyl cyanoacetate35363738 and 3-ethylrodanine3940.
To cover the short wavelength region, [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) was used as the acceptor for the BHJ OSCs.
This clearly indicates that the PDMS additive plays a positive role in free carrier generation in the BHJ films, which may resulting from more effective donor/acceptor interface due to the decreased domain size as discussed in the morphology section below.
3, weak but sharp (100) reflection peaks are observed from the blend film using PDMS as an additive, suggesting the lamellar structure of donor materials are still maintained, which benefits the charge transport.
And in this case, the excitons in the film without PDMS may not be able to reach the donor/acceptor interface, and to subsequently dissociate into free carriers.
For the active layers fabricated with PDMS additive, PDMS with desired amounts was added in the donor/PC71BM blend solutions and stirred for 1 hour before spin-coating.
In this work, a model molecule PSB-1 was synthesized based on this highly planar fragment and used as a photosensitizer in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSCs), then different aromatic amine donors such as triphenylamine (TPA), carbazole (CZ), and phenothiazine (PTZ) were introduced to the end of PSB-1, and a series of dyes PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 were designed and synthesized.
The results show that the introduction of a strong donor can effectively improve the energy level, absorption spectrum, and photovoltaic performance of PSB-1.
Through the preliminary test, we found that the energy conversion efficiency (photovoltaic conversion efficiency—PCE) of PSB-4 is up to 5.5%, which is nearly 90% higher than that of PSB-1 (PCE = 2.9%), while the introduction of a weak donor greatly weakens the effect, in which the PCE of PSB-3 is 3.5%, which is only 20% higher than that of the model molecule.
However, the development of metal complex dyes has to suffer some defects that cannot be ignored, for instance, the synthesis of ruthenium dye has to bear the defect of resource scarcity and heavy-metal toxicity and a high-performance zinc porphyrin dye suffers from low synthetic yield and the use of highly toxic raw materials such as CSCl2 and DDQ.2 Thereby, the development of pure organic dyes with donor−π–acceptor (D−π–A) structures has attracted the interest of many groups owing to their abundant raw materials, adjustable structures, and flexible molecular designs.13−23 Inspired by the highly planarized structure and strong electronic properties of metal complex dyes, more attention has been paid to the design and synthesis of pure organic dyes with high planarization, small dihedral angle, and strong electron-donating capacity.13−15,24−30 In this regard, some organic small molecules with highly coplanar structures are constantly reported, such as perylene,24 benzo-[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT),25 bidithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]pyrrole,26 thiophene fluorene,27 isoindigo,28 coumarin,29 and indacenodithiophene (IDT)30 and its derivatives.
In addition, it has been found that arylamine and its derivatives have strong a electron-pushing ability and are often designed as donors of organic dyes, such as triphenylamine,31 tetrahydroquinoline,32 phenothiazine,33 indoline,34 carbazole,35 phenoxazine,36 and their derivatives.
The dyes based on the donor of arylamine and its derivatives almost cover more than 90% of the reported pure organic dyes and have achieved very good results.
As shown in Figure 1, PSB-1 is used as a model molecule and compared with PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 by introducing different aromatic amine donors to its end, and then the changes in the energy level and photophysical and photovoltaic properties of the dyes are preliminarily studied.
It is found that BDF can be used in DSCs, and the energy conversion efficiency of the model molecule is 2.9%, while the energy conversion efficiencies of PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 are greatly improved after the introduction of aromatic amine donors, which are 4.7, 3.5, and 5.5%, respectively.
Upon an analysis from the theoretical calculation and absorption spectrum performance, we found that when a strong donor (TPA or PTZ) is added to BDF, the dye’s energy level, absorption spectrum, and photovoltaic characteristics can be effectively improved, while the effect will be greatly weakened when a weak donor (CZ) is added because intramolecular electron transfer reduces the potential energy.
After introducing a strong electron donor unit at the end of PSB-1, the electron clouds of PSB-2 and PSB-4 were mainly distributed on TPA and PTZ units at the HOMO level and partly on thiophene and BDF units close to the donor, and the electron clouds at the LUMO level were mainly distributed on the CA unit and partly on thiophene and BDT units close to the CA.
However, PSB-3 was quite different; the electron cloud at the HOMO level was mainly distributed on the BDF unit and some on CZ and thiophene close to the donor (CZ), and the electron cloud at the LUMO level was mainly distributed on CA unit and some on thiophene and BDF near CA.
By comparing the dihedral angles, it is found that there was little difference (25° for PSB-2, 28.7° for PSB-3, and 24.2° for PSB-4) between the donor and π-bridge unit in the twist angles for PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4.
After these fragments were assembled into dyes, the HOMO energy levels increased in the order PSB-1, PSB-3, PSB-2, and PSB-4; the LUMO energy levels decreased in the order PSB-4, PSB-3 = PSB-2, and PSB-1; and E0-0 narrowed in the order PSB-1, PSB-3, PSB-2, and PSB-4.1The HOMO energy levels of the dyes increased with the introduction of different donors; in addition, the LUMO energy level decreased obviously and the band gap narrowed, which were caused by the introduction of a strong acceptor CA.
To intuitively compare the electron-donating properties of the donor or organic fragment and verify the particularity of the ground-state electron cloud distribution of PSB-3 in the above electron cloud distribution diagram, the electron-donating capacity parameters (DA) of each unit and dye was calculated with reference to the previous work of our research group,39 and the results are listed in Table 1.
The DA trend of each donor and dye is shown in Figure 3C.
It can explain the changes of HOMO and LUMO energy levels of each dye more intuitively: the model dye PSB-1 has the lowest HOMO energy level, which was because its donor (thiophene) was weaker than the other three dyes.
After introducing different aromatic amine donors into PSB-1, the HOMO energy levels of PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 were increased, LUMO levels were decreased, the band gaps were narrowed, and the electron-donating abilities of the dyes were increased in the order PSB-1, PSB-3, PSB-2, and PSB-4.
By measuring the UV–vis absorption spectra of the dyes in THF, the influence of the introduction of donors on the light capture ability of dyes can be investigated.
Through the formula LUMO = HOMO – Eg, the LUMO energy levels were obtained as −3.07, −2.86, −2.95, and −2.88 eV, respectively.2Based on the energy level, the DA values of the dyes were obtained as 1.22, 1.51, 1.40, and 1.53 eV, respectively, referring to the method in our previous work.39 Due to the introduction of receptor CA, the DA values of the dyes were smaller than that of the aromatic amine donor.
As shown in Table 2, note that after the introduction of an electron donor group, the electron-donating ability of dyes increases in the order DA (PSB-1) < DA (PSB-3) < DA (PSB-2) < DA (PSB-4).
Because the dyes have the same π-bridge (BDF) and receptor (CA), the change is mainly caused by the introduction of the aromatic amine donor, so it can be inferred that dyes PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 have stronger intramolecular electron-transfer potential energy, which can be verified by the fact that the three dyes have red absorption spectra and stronger ICT absorption peaks compared with those of PSB-1, which shows that the design strategy here can effectively regulate the energy levels and band gaps and improve the absorption spectra of BDF dyes.
The Voc, Jsc, and fill factor (FF) of PSB-1 were 0.61 V, 6.80 mA cm–2, and 0.70, respectively, and the photoelectric conversion efficiency (PCE) is 2.9%, however, the Voc, Jsc and FF of the other three dyes have significant increasing: 0.70 V, 9.66 mA cm–2 and 0.70 for PSB-2, 0.67 V, 7.80 mA cm–2 and 0.68 for PSB-3, 0.72 V, 10.26 mA cm–2 and 0.72 for PSB-4, and the PCE were 4.7, 3.5, and 5.5% respectively, which are 62, 20, and 90% higher than PSB-1, which was because the introduction of the aromatic amine donor makes the former dyes to have a better energy level and absorption spectrum.
This may be because the stronger donor of PSB-4 has a narrower band gap and wider absorption spectrum, which effectively improved the short-circuit current.
The former may be due to the weaker donor CZ affected the electron density of the semiconductor surface, while the latter may be because the introduction of CZ increases the volume of PSB-3, more effectively suppresses the dark current at the interface than PSB-1, and improves the electronic density of the TiO2 surface relative to PSB-1.
In this work, a model dye PSB-1 was first synthesized based on thieno[2,3-f]benzofuran (BDF), by the introduction of several strong donors TPA, CZ, and PTZ at the end of PSB-1, and a series of BDF-based dyes PSB-2, PSB-3, and PSB-4 were synthesized and characterized.
The results of UV–vis absorption spectra, cyclic voltammetry curves, IPCE, and J–V characteristic curves revealed that adding an electron donor group to the donor end of PSB-1, as predicted by theoretical calculations, can effectively improve the energy level of the dyes, broaden the absorption spectrum, and improve the photovoltaic performance of DSCs.
In conclusion, we conclude that when a strong donor is added to the BDF dye, its energy level, absorption spectrum, and photovoltaic characteristics can be effectively improved, but when a donor weaker than BDF is used, this effect will be greatly weakened.
Despite the numerous methods used to transfer‐print the CP films, it is challenging to make high yields of large‐area products (>3 cm × 3 cm) without pinholes and cracks, mostly due to the requirement of precisely adjusting the VDW interactions among the rigid donor substrates, PDMS mediums and plastic target substrates.
Kim et al.224 found a stretchable photoactive layer incorporating polymer donors and polymer acceptors.
It is mainly attributed to the higher intrinsically ductile property of the polymer acceptor and a better entanglement with the polymer donors.
The introduction of the IDIC/ITIC families of non-fullerene acceptors has boosted the photovoltaic performances of bulk-heterojunction organic solar cells.
In this review, we analyze the more recent advances in this field (last two years), and we focus our attention on the molecular design proposed to increase photovoltaic performance with the aim of rationalizing the general properties of these families of non-fullerene acceptors.
Conventional BHJ-OSCs are typically based on a blend of bicontinuous and interpenetrating electron donor (D) and electron acceptor (A) materials.
The absorption of photons creates excitons that dissociate into charge carriers (holes and electrons) at the D/A interface, and the opposite polarity carrier materials transport holes and electrons through the donor and acceptor channels to the anode and cathode, respectively, where they are collected to be used as electrical power source.
Typical electron donor polymers exhibit a conjugated backbone on which pendant alkyl side chains, necessary for solubilization in organic solvents and processability, are present.
OSCs based on fullerene electron acceptors (FAs) played a central role in the development of increasingly better performing devices, with a maximum PCE currently achieved at 11% [13].
Their specific advantages can be summarized as follows: (i) strong tendency to accept electrons from common donor semiconductors; (ii) high electron mobility even in the composite form; (iii) ability to form favorable nanoscale morphological networks with donor materials; (iv) isotropy of charge transport; and (v) reversible electrochemical reduction [15].
Record efficiencies in OSCs have been the result of the development of new electron donor materials with improved properties, such as better spectral sensitivity, enhanced hole transport, and more favorable HOMO/LUMO (highest occupied molecular orbital/lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) energy levels, better matching with PC61BM or PC71BM HOMO/LUMO levels.
More recently, the focus in the development of OSCs has shifted to non-fullerene electron acceptors (NFAs) in combination with a polymeric electron donor in BHJ OSCs.
An ideal NFA should exhibit (a) strong absorption coefficients in regions of the visible and NIR spectrum that are complementary to those in which the available electron donor polymers absorb; (b) suitably matched energy levels for achieving exergonic charge separation with donors; (c) the ability to form appropriate morphologies for charge separation and suitable percolation pathways for charge transport; and (d) good molecular and morphological thermal and photostability.
NFAs have a long history; indeed, the first reported bilayer OSCs used a perylene-based acceptor [17], and some early BHJ OSCs used electron-rich and electron-deficient poly(phenylenevinylene)s [18,19].
Many of the advances in NFA-containing OSCs are attributable to two classes of materials: rylene di-imides and fused-ring electron acceptors (FREAs) [25,26,27,28,29].
In this review, we illustrate recent advances (in the last 2 years) in the IDIC/ITIC families in order to understand the detailed optoelectronic, morphological, and photovoltaic properties of these acceptor families.
End-capping groups are extremely important for the optical and electrochemical properties of the NFAs for the following reasons: (a) they retrieve electron density from the electron-rich core, generating a push–pull effect responsible for the light absorption in the region of 600–800 nm as well as a spatial confinement of the LUMO orbitals over them [39]; (b) they contribute to the interaction between the acceptors and the donor [40], and to the overall morphological properties of the active layer [41].
Numerous studies have demonstrated that VOC depends on the energy gap between the HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO level of the acceptor of the BHJ [42].
The photovoltaic properties of the best devices for NFAs shown in Figure 2 are reported in Table 2, alongside the indication of the reference and the acronym of the donor polymer used in combination with the NFA for the production of the bilayer cell.
It is noteworthy that a1 has the highest VOC reported in Table 2, which, according to the authors, is a result of the optimal energy level matching the used donor polymer.
Nevertheless, BHJ cells with a3, using a different donor polymer, gave higher PCE than to a1 and a2.
In terms of photovoltaic properties, b4, with respect to b0, showed higher VOC as a consequence of the better match with the donor polymer and higher Jsc and FF (Table 2 entry 10).
In terms of photovoltaic properties b5 and b6, although compared in combination with different donor polymers, gave some of the best performances in the field to date for binary BHJ cells.
In terms of photovoltaic properties, b9 and b10 showed higher PCE compared with those of b0; the authors explained this as a consequence of complementary absorption with the donor, higher and more balanced charge mobility and a higher domain purity, which suppresses the bimolecular recombination and promotes charge transport, consequently increasing the PCE.
The carbazole-based acceptor achieved the highest PCE for the binary BHJs reported to date in the literature with this class of NFAs (entry 13 in Table 4).
[58] reported the synthesis of a novel NFA with a naphthalene core (a6); the optoelectronic properties are essentially the same as those of a0, apart from higher HOMO and LUMO levels, probably better matching the donor polymer, resulting in better performance in terms of photovoltaic properties.
Interestingly, a9 possesses a lower electron mobility, but higher photovoltaic parameters than those of a0; the authors explained this as a consequence of better complementary absorption with the donor, suppressed nonradioactive recombination loss, uniform and significantly decreased phase-separated morphology and a more efficiently suppressed charge recombination.
These acceptors, despite the different halides in the end-capping groups, have a regioisomeric scaffold.
Both acceptors showed remarkable red-shifted UV–vis spectra when compared to those of a0.
The optical bandgaps are essentially the same for both acceptors.
The comparison between OSC systems is often made by considering the best PCE of devices, characterizing each specific combination of the polymer donor and acceptor.
The cost of the materials, and, more specifically, of the employed donor and acceptor, is in turn primarily dependent on their synthetic accessibility, which, broadly speaking, is related to the number of required synthetic steps (NSS) [72].
A few years ago, some of us reported quantitative metrics in an attempt to rationalize and quantify the synthetic complexities of donor and acceptor components for OSCs [73].
[74] published a study where a wide range of non-fullerene acceptors was ranked according to their photobleaching rate.
The introduction of an electron-withdrawing benzothiadiazole ring between the indacenodithiophene core and the dicyanoindanone terminals (i.e., the IDTBR family of acceptors, for example, a2) further increases the stability, which makes these materials the most interesting for module manufacturing (providing that the energy level matching the donor is satisfactory) [75].
In any case, the findings described above provide a rule of design of acceptors that may be useful for further OPV material development.
From this point of view, IDTBR (a2) is again one of the more robust acceptors, with PCE as high as 8.1% for 1010 nm thick devices [78].
IDIC-type acceptors provide devices with 8.5% PCE at a 530 nm thickness (for comparison, the PCE at 105 nm is 12.2%) [79], while in the case of the ITIC-type acceptor, a device with 8.9% at 500 nm has been reported (12.7% at 141 nm) [80].
Cyanine dyes, and their derivatives, have a long history in the field of small molecule-based organic photovoltaics (OPV).1 The beneficial properties of cyanine dyes, such as their high extinction coefficients (typically exceeding 105 L mol−1 cm−1)2 mean that they have traditionally been used in planar architecture devices, generally in combination with fullerene acceptor materials, with device efficiencies of up to 3.7% being achieved.3 Their aforementioned high extinction coefficients mean that thin active layers, of around 20 nm thickness, can be employed allowing them to circumvent issues that typically thwart the performance of planar architecture devices, such as exciton recombination before diffusion to the donor acceptor interface has occurred.4,5
For example, time-resolved electroabsorption spectroscopy has been used to study the dissociation of charge transfer states in Cy3-P:C60 bilayers.18 Moving away from bilayers, transient absorption spectroscopy has been employed to study the impact of phase morphology in cyanine:PCBM blends, providing a better understanding of charge transfer dynamics in bulk heterojunction architecture OPVs.19 More recently, evidence was produced demonstrating that photocurrent generation can occur in a pristine cyanine thin film, despite the absence of a donor–acceptor interface.20 Furthermore, the generated charges exhibited a long carrier lifetime as a result of reduced recombination, providing potential material design concepts for future photodiodes.
Intrinsic photogeneration has also been previously demonstrated in photodiodes utilising donor–acceptor oligomers,26 as well as in single layer SubNc, SubPc and squaraine dye-based devices.
This helps us in confirming our hypothesis that the positive feature corresponds to photoinduced charge separation within the films, since the charge transfer kinetics are very sensitive to the intermolecular distance between the donor and the acceptor.
An organoboron small-molecular acceptor (OSMA) MB←N containing a boron–nitrogen coordination bond (B←N) exhibits good light absorption in organic solar cells (OSCs).
reported the first BN-based acceptor applied in the field of organic solar cells (OSCs) through replacement of a C-C bond by a boron–nitrogen coordination bond (B←N) [10], which sparked great research interest in the chemistry of organoboron acceptors.
However, the development of n-type organoboron small-molecular acceptors (OSMAs) with advantages of facile synthesis, synthetic versatility, and simplified purification lags far behind that of their polymer counterparts [23,24].
The former has been widely applied to construct non-fullerene acceptors and has achieved great success.
developed a novel OSMA called BNTT2F, which was the first reported B-N covalent bond-based electron acceptor for OSCs, achieving the highest power conversion efficiency (PCE) among OSMAs [29].
Inspired by the remarkable characteristics of M-BNBP4P-1 (called MB←N in this work) and the fact that the core of the acceptor could effectively regulate its performance, we introduced the B-N bonds into the core group to design a B-N-containing OSMA MB-N and studied whether the derivative containing B-N bond would prove to be an excellent OSMA.
In OSCs, determining the energy-level alignment of an acceptor is particularly important since the key photovoltaic parameter VOC is dependent on the difference (ΔEDA) between the LUMO energy level of the acceptor and the HOMO energy level of the donor (ΔEDA = ELUMO(A)−EHOMO(D)) [30,31], which is essential to drive devices [32].
As shown in Figure 2a, MB←N and MB-N possess relatively higher-lying HOMO levels than that of MC-N, indicating less energy loss (Eloss) in the boron-containing acceptors.
Therefore, MB-N yields a high VOC of 0.85 V, which is enhanced by about 9% compared to the reference acceptor.
The absorption spectra of the organoboron acceptors MB←N and MB-N are red-shifted relative to that of their carbon-counterpart as a result of the reduced energy gaps mentioned previously.
In terms of absorption spectra, MB←N and MB-N are expected to be excellent acceptors because they meet the absorption demands of long wavelengths [44,45].
Electron mobility (μe) is the most important property for acceptors in OSCs, which reflects the electron transport behavior [47,48,49].
Although the active layer is amorphous, the small range of the ordered domains of the non-fullerene acceptor is the key to the charge transport characteristics [57].
In OSCs, the excitons photogenerated within the donor or acceptor components dissociate at the donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces, which significantly control the photocurrent and thus affect the PCE of the devices [58,59,60,61].
To gain a deeper insight into the interfacial optical properties of the organoboron acceptors, the interfaces between the donor PTB7-Th and the investigated organoboron molecules, namely PTB7-Th/MB←N and PTB7-Th/MB-N, were constructed, and the excited-state properties of the D/A interfaces were assessed.
Among these, the CT state between the donor and the acceptor at the D/A interface is a paramount intermediate state to realize charge separation [58,62,63], which is characterized by the fact that the two singly occupied molecular orbitals separately locate on the donor and the acceptor.
The LE state refers to an electron excitation localized on the donor or the acceptor, with high transition probability, but which is difficult to separate.
A large TDM value in the off-diagonal term denotes that a strong electron-hole coherence presents between the donor and the acceptor, which corresponds to the CT state, while a large value in the diagonal region indicates a strong charge coherence within the donor or acceptor, which represents the LE component.
Parameter Δq can quantitatively express electrons transferring from the donor to the acceptor [67].
The low energy state, with a small energy difference, can generate the CT state through the IEF mechanism driven by the difference in molecular ESP between the donor and the acceptor [72].
The molecular packings of the acceptors were obtained from the crystal structure prediction at the DREIDING force field [79], which was considered to be a more appropriate force field for molecular crystal prediction [80].
The large overlap between the donor and the acceptor enhances the interface interactions, thus reducing the overall energy [88].
Therefore, the donor PTB7-Th was stacked face-to-face, stacking MB←N and MB-N, respectively, at a distance of 3.5 Å to form the donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces, which has been proven to obtain essential results [62,89,90].
Then, these D/A interfaces containing a donor/acceptor pair were simulated by molecular dynamics (Figure S3).
After reaching equilibrium, the D/A interfacial configuration containing a donor/acceptor pair remained relatively stable, and the lowest energy configurations obtained by equilibrated dynamic simulations were fully optimized at the B3LYP-D3/6-31G (d, p) level with the Gaussian 16 code.
The net transferred electrons from donor (D) to acceptor (A) can be obtained by using the following formula [67,93]:(7)Δq=QD,A−QA,D , where QD,A (QA,D) corresponds to the electron transfer from D (A) to A (D) during the excitation, which can be calculated from:(8)QD,A=∑iOCC∑avir[(wia)2−(w′ia)2]∑R∈DΘR,i∑S∈AΘS,a , where wia and wi′a are the configuration coefficient of the excitation molecular orbital i to a and the de-excitation molecular orbital a to i, respectively; ΘR,i (ΘS,a) is the contribution of atom R (S) to the molecular orbital i (a).
Our results not only predict an excellent organoboron small-molecular acceptor MB-N by explaining the internal mechanisms, but also provide a theoretical description of the structure–property relationships.
When the energy level difference between donor and acceptor is greater than the binding energy of electron, charge transfer excited state is formed.
Finally, the separated electrons and holes are transported in the acceptor and donor materials by local state hopping.
In the application of solar cells, as the acceptor materials, in order to enhance the ability to capture light, and to absorb and complement with the wide band gap donor unit as far as possible, it can condense the imide and extend the conjugated skeleton structure to promote the polymer to absorb more red shift and increase the current.
After introducing electron-deficient construction units (acceptor units) into polymer skeleton, the LUMO level of polymer semiconductor materials can be effectively reduced due to the strong electron-withdrawing ability of electron-deficient units, which is conducive to the realization of N-type properties.21 The design and synthesis of electron-deficient units is the most important part of the development of high-performance N-type polymer semiconductor materials.
At present, the main electron-deficient units are fused-ring electron acceptors, which mainly include: imide construction units (naphthalene diimide NDI, perylene diamide PDI, bisthiophene imide BTI, bisthiazole imide BTzI, etc.
1(g)) were synthesized by Lv, L.49 The results suggested that PTe-NDI(OD) and PTe-NDI(HD) N-type copolymers were promising electron acceptors for organic solar cells and potential sensor materials for bromine detection.
In 2010, Zhou E et al.53 synthesized four types of perylene diimide-based electron acceptor materials.
By changing the donor segment from fluorene to dithienopyrrole and/or introducing a thiophene unit as a spacer, the bandgap and energy levels of the resulting polymers could be tuned in a wide range.
All-polymer solar cells based on these electron acceptors, blended with different electron donor polymers, namely, a polythiophene derivative (P1) and a low bandgap polymer (P2), were also investigated.
In 2011, Zhou, E et al.54 also investigated systematically all-PSCs based on six perylene diimide containing polymers (PX-PDIs) as acceptor materials and two polythiophene derivatives (P3HT and PT1) as donor materials.
Considering the large improvement in all-PSCs with the use of PT1 as donor material instead of P3HT, further investigation on the combination of P-type and N-type polymers could lead to a higher PCE, comparable to that of polymer/fullerene BHJs.
In 2014, Zhou Y55 reported high performance all-polymer solar cells employing isoindigo-containing donor polymers and perylene tetracarboxlic di-imide (PTCDI)-containing acceptor polymers.
Incorporation of polystyrene side chains into the donor polymer was found to assist in reducing the phase separation domain length scale.
3(d)) based on bithienyl-benzodithiophene (BDT) and perylene diimide (PDI), was synthesized by Stille56 coupling reaction for the application as acceptor material in all-polymer solar cells (PSCs).
P(PDI-BDT-T) exhibited broad absorption in the visible region with the optical bandgap (Eg) of 1.64 eV, and a LUMO level of −3.89 eV which was similar with and slightly higher than that of PCBM, indicating that the polymer was suitable for the application as acceptor instead of PCBM in PSCs.
The PSCs with P(PDI-BDT-T) as acceptor and PTB7-Th (Fig.
3(d)) as donor demonstrated a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 4.71% with a Jsc of 11.51 mA cm−2, Voc of 0.80 V, and FF of 51.1%.
While the PCE of the PSCs based on the acceptor of a corresponding 1D-conjugated polymer P(PDI-BDT-O) (Fig.
These results indicated that the 2D-conjugated P(PDI-BDT-T) was a promising acceptor material for all polymer PSCs.
In 2016, Guo Y et al.57 designed and studied a new PDI polymer acceptor, that exhibits much-enhanced PCE in all-PSCs relative to the previously reported poly(PDI-thiophene).
Solar cell devices were fabricated based on a well-known donor polymer named PTB7-Th and PDI-V, which achieved high efficiency of 7.57%.
These results suggested that tellurophene-based N-type copolymers were promising electron acceptors for organic solar cells and potential sensor materials for bromine detection.
Moreover, the aggregation of the polymers which are prepared by PDI and NDI is usually serious, which poses a challenge to obtain good miscibility of acceptor materials in solar cell devices.
By introducing the fluorine atom of the electron donor unit, the TBDI-DFDT with double thiophene also shows a single N-type performance, with high electron mobility.
(d–h) Chemical structures of polymer semiconductors with BTI1(or BTI)-BTI5, including both donor–acceptor (D–A) type copolymers, acceptor–acceptor (A–A) homopolymers and donor–donor (D–D) type copolymers.
Subsequently, Wang Y. F. et al.30,60 constructed high performance N-type polymer semiconductors based on fused ring BTI units as the core polymerized with different donor units, which were applied to organic field-effect transistors and all-polymer solar cells.
The fused BTI2 acceptor unit was copolymerized with thiophene and bisfluorothiophene, respectively, they obtained the corresponding polymers f-BTI2-T and f-BTI2-FT (Fig.
When it mixed with polymer donor PCE10, the corresponding all-polymer solar cell efficiency reached 6.85%.
However, the cell efficiency of f-BTI2-T as an acceptor was only 4.34%.
This was because the introduction to fluorine atoms into the electron-donating unit reduced the LUMO energy level of the polymer, and the bigger difference of LUMO energy level between the donor polymers and the acceptor polymers was more favorable for the separation of excitons, thereby improving the performance of solar cells.
5(c)) were obtained by the copolymerization of fused BTI3 acceptor units containing longer conjugation lengths with monothiophene and difluorothiophene, respectively.
The introduction to fluorine atoms into the thiophene donor unit resulted in a blue shift of f-BTI3-FT absorption, the polymer had a wider optical bandgap and weakened the ability of absorption light.
When PTB7-Th was used as the donor, f-BTI3-T and f-BTI3-FT were used as acceptors, and their solar cell efficiency PCE reached 8.98% and 7.33% respectively.
Besides, compared with the BTI2 unit with central symmetry, the BTI3 unit with axial symmetry made the corresponding polymer have more flexible polymer chain skeleton, which was more beneficial to the blend of the acceptor polymer and the donor polymer, and could improve the morphology of the mixed film and facilitate exciton separation and charge transfer.
It predicts the great potential of the fused-ring BTI-based N-type polymer as acceptor material in all-polymer solar cells.
Based on the above strategy, Wang Y. F. et al.26,61 had reported a series of BTIn-based all-acceptor homopolymers (PBTIn, n = 1–5) (Fig.
This performance was much higher than that of the thiophene dimer polymer s-BTI2-FT without fluorine.60 s-FBTI2-FT was used as an acceptor material, which had good energy conversion efficiency (PCE = 6.50%) in all-polymer solar cells, and had a high open voltage (Voc = 1.04 V), energy loss was only 0.54 eV.
It was used as an acceptor material in all-polymer solar cells with high energy conversion efficiency (PCE = 8.1%), large open-circuit voltage (Voc = 1.05 V) and low energy loss (only 0.53 eV).
Driven by the appealing properties of imide-functionalized dithienylbenzodiimide (TBDI) and the promising device performance of TBDI-based polymers, a novel acceptor with increased electron affinity, fluorinated dithienylbenzodiimide (TFBDI) (Fig.
Copolymerizing this new electron-withdrawing TBDI with various donor co-units afforded a series of N-type polymer semiconductors: TFBDI-T (Fig.
As far as they were known, the PCE was one of the highest values of fullerene PSCs based on imide-containing polymer donors.
At present, the methods to realize N-type properties of polymer semiconductor materials are as follows: (1) designing a new type of electron deficient unit; (2) introducing strong electron withdrawing groups, such as: –F, –CN,    <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="13.200000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 13.200000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.017500,-0.017500)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 440 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z M0 280 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z"/></g></svg>  O, and so on; (3) developing polymer semiconductors with full acceptor backbone structure; (4) improving the symmetry of side chain and conjugated backbone.68–70
When PBTI and P (BTI-BTI2) were used as acceptors in all polymer solar cells, high power conversion efficiencies of 6.67% and 8.61% were obtained, respectively.
Imide-functionalized acceptor–acceptor copolymers as efficient electron transport layers was used in high-performance perovskite solar cells.73 This work provides important guidelines for designing N-type polymers to replace the conventional [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester as efficient electron transport layers for high-performance perovskite solar cells with improved stability.
DFT calculation revealed the hindered formation of intrinsic iodine vacancy donor defects resulting in insulating characteristics of Cs2TeI6.
However, the theoretical calculation of Cs2SnI6 native defects showed a low enthalpy of iodine vacancies formation and a level of defect energy that was a shallow donor to the conduction band.
In addition, the phosphate anions have weak affinities for amide moieties of PNIPAM chains, which are hydrogen bond donor groups [52].
OPVs based on the so-called bulk heterojunction consist of blends of electron donor (usually a π-conjugated polymer) and electron acceptor (typically a fullerene derivative or a second polymer) materials.
Subsequently, the lowest-energy intermolecular charge-transfer (CT) states that occur at the phase-boundary between donor and acceptor materials also have binding energies in the range of 300–400 meV2.
Delocalization of the transferred electron amongst several fullerenes diminishes its Coulombic attraction to a hole localized in the polymer (donor) phase.
Model calculations based upon Fermi’s golden rule also indicate that such rapid time-scales are only consistent with a model of a highly-delocalised charge in the acceptor phase12.
Such spectacularly and apparently universally rapid through-space charge transfer between excitons on the polymer backbone and acceptors across the heterojunction would be difficult to rationalize within Marcus theory using a localised basis without invoking unphysical distance dependence of tunnelling rate constants14.
To model any particular physical system, we need information about the energy and nature of the excited states at the donor:acceptor interface where charge separation occurs.
In the present case, we use the simplest possible model of the donor:acceptor interface, a complex consisting of an oligomer of the donor polymer and a single fullerene derivative, separated by an edge to edge distance of 3.5 Angstrom, and calculate the lowest excited states in vacuum using time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) with the hybrid B3LYP/6–31G* functional.
For a donor:acceptor pair where the molecules’ HOMO and LUMO energies are staggered, such calculations typically reveal at least one CT state lying at an energy below the lowest exciton state of either donor or acceptor.
to reproduce the observed trend in lowest excitation energies (determined through electroluminescence) with the chemical structure of donor and acceptor constituent materials.
Here, we focus on the donor: acceptor system that we study experimentally, the polymer poly(N-9″-hepta-decanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)) (PCDTBT) combined with the fullerene derivative phenyl C-61 butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM).
A similar trend in decreasing Coulombic binding energy with increasing CT state energy has been reported in a variety of other donor: acceptor blends2642.
Figure 3 shows the spectrum of excited states for the donor trimer (3CDTBT), the PCBM molecule, and the 3CDTBT:PCBM molecule pair with the fullerene located above the benzothiadiazole unit (BT), the carbazole unit (CZ) and the thiophene unit (T), calculated as described in ref.
In general any signal in the photocurrent is indicative of a direct tunneling process from exciton states close to the donor/acceptor interface to the continuum of CS states.
In a recent paper Bässler and Köhler51 reviewed relevant experimental approaches and concepts proposed to describe the charge separation process in donor-acceptor organic solar cells, enforcing the notion that this occurs through a charge separated state that is a vibrationally cold charge transfer state.
The devices examined in the present work are based on blends of poly(N-90-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(40,70- di-2-thienyl-20,10,30 -benzothiadiazole)) as electron donor and of the fullerene derivative [6,6]-phenyl-C60 butyric acid methyl ester as electron acceptor (PCDTBT:PCBM).
AbstractOrganic photovoltaics (OPVs) with nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) feature excellent device performance and device stability.
In this work, a small molecule, ethanedithiol (EDT) at the polyethyleneimine ethoxylated (PEIE)/active layer interface is inserted for mitigating the undesirable reaction between amine‐rich groups and electron‐acceptor moieties in NFA.
This strategy can be used regardless of the type of nonfullerene acceptors in flexible organic photovoltaic technology.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5  ] These days, the nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) replaces the fullerene derivatives because of their superiority.
Compared to the fullerene acceptor, the NFA has numerous advantages, such as tunable bandgap that can broaden the absorption in the near‐infrared region, tunable crystallinity, and planarity that can improve the morphology of the active layer.
Unlike the fullerene, the NFA has acceptor‐donor‐acceptor (A‐D‐A) moieties for creating intramolecular charge transport and broadening the light absorption spectrum.
For illustrating, the high‐performance ITIC families have an indacenodithieno[3,2‐b]thiophene (IDTT) group as an electron donor and two 2‐(3‐oxo‐2,3‐dihydroinden‐1‐ylidene) malononitrile (INCN) groups as electron acceptors.
[  18 ,  19 ,  20  ] Despite A‐D‐A configuration exhibits outstanding photovoltaic performance, the intramolecular structures of INCN electron‐acceptor are easily attacked by the electron‐rich amine groups of PEIE or PEI acting as nucleophiles with strong electron‐donating properties.
[  3  ] In another study, they provided an acidic environment for the acceptor by directly adding H+ originated from acetic acid to the active layer solution.
After the inclusion of EDT small molecule, the electron donation from the lone pair nitrogen atoms in PEIE to INCN electron‐acceptor can be suppressed.
b) The schematic of our strategy to mitigate reaction occurred in NF acceptor when contact with amines or hydroxyl groups in interfacial layers.
The better wetting at CIL/active layer interface could lead to improved active layer film formation and donor/acceptor phase morphology.
[  21  ] The electron‐rich amine groups in PEIE/PEI CIL are working as nucleophiles and react with the C=O and —CN moieties, “poisoning” the ITIC‐M structure, cause the breaking up the original electronic structure and intramolecular electron transfer from the donor IDTT to the broken electron‐accepting INCN end group in the ITIC‐M.
The lower current flow toward the PEIE direction can prevent electron donation from the PEIE to ITIC‐M acceptor.
The charge transfer resistance (R CT) represents an aggregate of interfacial resistance between the active layer and cathode interfacial layers, and donor/acceptor interfacial resistance.
The high charge carrier resistance on the PEIE device might be attributed to the interrupted intermolecular charge transport in the ITIC‐M acceptor due to an unwanted reaction between PEIE and ITIC‐M acceptor.
After the introduction of EDT, this reaction can be prevented, and the interrupted charge transport is not likely to happen due to the ITIC‐M acceptor in “pure” condition proven by lower charge transport resistance.
For the pristine PEIE‐based device, the imperfect molecular structure of ITIC‐M acceptor due to unwanted reaction with PEIE could retard the charge transport leads to lower electron mobility.
Alteration of peripheral acceptors in all of the molecular structures drastically modified their charge-transfer properties, such as a strong light-harvesting capability in the range of 0.9993–0.9998, reduced exciton Eb (from 0.34 to 0.39 eV), a reduced bandgap (Eg) in the range of 1.66–1.99 eV, an elevated λmax (775–959 nm) along with a higher μ in the solvent phase (1.934–7.865 D) when studied in comparison with PCLR, possessing an LHE of 0.9986, an Eb of 0.40, an Eg 2.27 eV, λmax at 662 nm, and a μ of 0.628 D. The FMO analysis revealed the uniform dispersal of charge density entirely along the highest occupied (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied (LUMO) molecular orbitals in newly constructed moieties.
Focusing on the outcomes, terminal acceptor modification was found to be a suitable method for the development of highly tuned OSCs in the future.
Several molecular modeling approaches such as alkyl chain substitution, interfacial alterations of donor–acceptor units, and alteration of end-capped terminal moieties have been exploited to further increase the energy efficiency of NF systems.11 Recently, novel organic materials such as pentacyclic aromatic bislactam,12 benzodifurandione-based poly(phenylene vinylene) (BDPPV),13 and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) acceptors14 have been explored as promising building blocks for OPVs.
PCLR possesses two monomers, an electron-deficient pentacyclic aromatic bislactam (PCL) central core followed by thiophene rings attached on both sides of PCL, which are further preceded by DPP and a thiophene ring.16 The technique of structural modification was used to design five new small donor groups from the reference PCLR.
The five newly designed molecules were modeled by adding end-capped acceptors such as X1 (2-thiophen-2-ylmethylene-malononitrile) in PCLM1, X2 (2-cyano-acrylic acid methyl ester) in PCLM2, X3 (2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1,1-dicarbonitrile)) in PCLM3, X4 (3-methyl-5-methylene-2-thioxo-thiazolidin-4-one) in PCLM4, and X5 (2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1,1,5,6-tetracarbonitrile) in PCLM5 after both terminal thiophene rings (π-spacer) in the reference molecule (PCLR).
The configuration of the reference molecule was DPP–PCL–DPP, and the five novelly designed molecules had an acceptor–DPP–PCL–DPP–acceptor configuration.
The charge density in HOMOs was primarily concentrated on the central donor core and π-spacers and minorly on acceptor moieties, with negligible effect on the end-capped acceptors.
Similarly, the charge dispersal in LUMOs was majorly concentrated on terminal acceptor moieties and minorly on π-spacers.
It was found that in comparison with PCLR, all newly modeled chromophores presented higher values of λmax, which might be because of the influence of delocalized π-electrons on extending the conjugation with most electron-withdrawing acceptor moieties (X1–X5).
The electron-withdrawing ability of acceptor moieties is intrinsically linked to the λmax and indirectly correlated to the bandgap (Eg).
The reference (PCLR) indicated a lower λmax as compared with all molecules due to the presence of the least resonance, whereas PCLM5 acquired X5 as an efficient electron-pulling acceptor possessing cyano groups, which resulted in its maximum absorbance.
In brief, all of our designed chromophores have peripheral acceptor moieties with a strong electron-withdrawing ability.
The LHE results indicate that the molecules newly constructed by modifying end-capped acceptors are more efficient than the reference PCLR.
PCLM5 displayed the highest μ value due to the enhanced polarity and excellent solubility of the X5 acceptor moiety in the CHCl3 solvent.
For their DOS analysis, the newly fabricated chromophores (PCLM1–PCLM5) were allocated into three portions, namely, donors (blue), π-spacers (green), and acceptors (red).
HOMOs are formed particularly by the contribution of spacer and acceptor fragments and slightly by the central core.
Likewise, LUMOs are formed by the equal contribution of all fragments (core, spacer, and acceptor), as displayed in Figure 10.
The interaction between acceptor and donor moieties in the excited state is shown by TDM plots.36 The TDM graphs of the reference PCLR and the newly constructed molecules (PCLM1–PCLM5) are demonstrated in Figure 12.
For the TDM analysis, all the molecules were sectioned into three fragments, namely, the donor (D), π-spacer (B), and acceptor (A) moieties.
Since hydrogen atoms have minimal influence on the transitions, they have been ignored in the TDM analysis.37 It can be understood from the TDM graph analysis of PCLR, PCLM1, PCLM3, and PCLM4 that the electron density is shifted from D to A via B of the DPP acceptor uniformly.
ESP surfaces of all of these molecules illustrate that the red color (negative potential) is concentrated on the acceptor regions of molecules, making them more electrophilic.
The region where the donor exists in each molecular framework possesses a blue color (positive potential) and behaves as a nucleophile.
VOC is basically that maximum amount of current, which is produced when the externally applied voltage is zero.41 Variables such as the donor’s HOMO and acceptor’s LUMO are scaled up.
The designed chromophores (PCLM1–PCLM5) act as promising donors, and so their HOMOs were cross-examined with the LUMO of PC61BM.
PC61BM is a widely used acceptor.
To obtain a higher VOC value, it should be taken into account that the donor’s HOMO has to be at a higher level and the LUMO of acceptor at a low level of energy.
Figure 15 depicts the VOC values of the reference PCLR and the newly investigated chromophores (PCLM1–PCLM5) along with the acceptor PC61BM.
VOC of the donor–acceptor interface has a significant influence on FF.42 FF is mathematically computed using eq 6 expressed below:6
To summarize the above results, five pentacyclic aromatic bislactam (PCL)-based small donor groups (PCLM1–PCLM5) were fabricated from the reference PCLR, and their optoelectronic properties were computed at the MPW1PW91/6-31G** level.
According to a TDM analysis, the bound electron–hole pairs of the newly designed donor molecules (PCLM1–PCLM5) can be easily dissociated into electrons and holes because of their lower interaction coefficient.
Furthermore, when scaled with a PC61BM acceptor, all of the newly proposed molecules exhibited greater VOC values than PCLR, which implies that these donor molecules play an important role in increasing the operational efficiency.
In the past few years, bulk heterojunction (BHJ) architecture has gained great success in OSC based on polymeric donors and fullerene-derived acceptors4, which circumvents the short exciton diffusion length in polymer donor materials (typically 5–10 nm)5,6 by providing an interpenetrating donor/acceptor (D/A) network for electron- and hole-transport7.
Until recently, significant efforts were devoted to designing novel donors and non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs)8–13 and device optimization14–16, for fullerene-free OSCs.
The combination of new NFAs and donor materials reduce the energy loss and broaden the light absorption in BHJ OSCs, leading to a certified power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 17%17.
Inspired by these findings, the pseudo-bilayer (PB) architecture, which is composed of three layers subsequently: a pure donor (or acceptor) layer at the bottom, a D/A mixture layer in between, and a pure acceptor (or donor) layer on top, has the potential to further alleviate the trade-off between exciton dissociation and charge collection19,20.
The results are based on a ternary system containing the donor poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl-3-fluoro)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo-[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))] (PM6)26, and the acceptors 2,10-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-5,6-difluoroindanone))-12, 13-bis(3-ethylheptyl)-3, 9-diundecyl-dithieno-[2″, 3″:4′, 5′] thieno[2′, 3′:4, 5] pyrrolo[3, 2-e:2′,3′-g] [2, 1, 3] benzothiadiazole (N3)27 and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM).
The steady-state PL spectra showed the vertical gradient distribution of donor and acceptor in PB films, where the higher concentration of donor/acceptor can be identified near cathode/anode, respectively.
The chemical structures, energy levels, and UV–Vis absorption spectra of donor (PM6) and acceptors (N3, PC71BM) used in this work are illustrated in Fig.
1Molecular structures of donor/acceptors and absorbance of films.a Chemical structures and b energy levels of PM6, N3, and PC71BM.
Molecular structures of donor/acceptors and absorbance of films.
1), the PL spectrum for a blend film would be dominated by the N3 domains and the charge-transfer (CT) states at the interface between PM6 and N3, which is due to the energy transfer37–39, unless the excited area is composed of pure PM6 domains and distant from acceptor domains40–42.
This means that the donor domains blended well with the acceptor domains at either front- or back-side of BHJ film.
7), these results demonstrate that the front- and back-sides of PB film were dominated by the N3:PC71BM and pure PM6 domains, respectively, while the blended PM6:acceptor (N3, PC71BM or N3:PC71BM) domains exist throughout the whole BHJ film.
However, charge transport could be hindered by the longer transport path induced by a more complex donor and acceptor network.
The longer exciton diffusion length in PB film explains the efficient exciton dissociation with a larger average domain size (38 nm), owing to the ability of excitons to reach the D/A interface across the large acceptor domains before being quenched.
Comparing the different film processing, the longer CL in the PB film could be ascribed to the sequential deposition (SD) processing method, which mitigates the influence of the acceptor (or donor) on the molecular stacking in the donor (or acceptor) domains during film preparation.
The PM6:SMA:PC71BM blends (1:0.96:0.24 weight ratio) were dissolved in chloroform with the donor concentration of 8 mg mL−1 and stirred at 55 °C for 2 h. 0.5% CN was added into the chloroform solution 30 min before the active layer was formed by spin coating at 1800–2800 rpm for 39 s followed by thermal annealing at 90 °C for 5 min.
Briefly, the IZrO film was grown using magnetron sputtering with zirconium defect levels sufficiently high in energy and above the conduction band minimum of In2O3 so that the transition metal dopant could be fully ionized at room temperature and act as a shallow donor along with high values of the electron concentration (ne) and electron mobility (µe) [35,36,37,38,39].
The relation between bias voltage and capacitance can be given by the following Mott–Schottky relation (6)6where C represents the capacitance of the space charge region, e is the electronic charge, V is the applied potential, k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature, and ND is the density of the donor.
It is shown that addition of porphyrin‐based MONs to devices with fully amorphous donor polymers lead to small improvements in performance attributed to increased light absorption due to nanosheets.
[  1 ,  2  ] This field has progressed rapidly over the last 5 years with improved donor polymers,[  3 ,  4  ] novel non‐fullerene acceptors,[  5 ,  6  ] and improved hole transport layers, leading to record power conversion efficiencies (PCE) > 18%.
Previous studies have shown that an optimal morphology is the one where the donor polymer is oriented in the direction that provides a higher charge mobility, typically in the direction of π–π stacking.
[  17 ,  18 ,  19 ,  20  ] Higher charge mobility can also be achieved by increasing the crystallinity of the donor polymer.
We initially evaluated devices based on amorphous and semi‐crystalline donor polymers and with different fullerene acceptors in order to understand the impact of the nanosheets in different systems.
P3HT is the prototypical semicrystalline polymer which we used in our previous studies alongside the archetypal fullerene acceptor, PCBM.
We sought to build on these initial studies by incorporating an improved fullerene acceptor to create P3HT‐ICBA devices.
PTB7Th polymer is a donor–acceptor type system reported as consisting of amorphous phases intermixed in largely disordered aggregates.
[  59 ,  60  ] Photoluminescence (PL) quenching measurements were therefore undertaken in order to investigate the effect of MONs on charge separation at the donor–acceptor interface.
The band gap for the MONs was calculated to be larger than that of the donor polymer opening up the possibility of the MONs act as a sensitizer to extend the absorption range, with energy transfer to the donor polymer through a Dexter or FRET mechanism.
A pre‐requisite for this energy transfer is that there should be significant overlap between the emission of the sensitizer (MON) and the absorption of the donor to allow efficient energy transfer.
Therefore, there is a significant overlap between the emission of MONs and absorption of the donor polymer to facilitate efficient energy transfer.
This indicates that the donor polymer and acceptor fullerene maintain their molecular structure in the ternary blend even upon the incorporation of the MONs.
In PffBT4T2OD:PCBM systems the HOMO of the MONs is above that of the donor polymer and the complimentary absorption and emission spectra allow for the MONs to act as sensitizers to extend the absorption range.
In line with our initial hypothesis, the crystallinity of the donor polymer was the biggest determinant of the size of the increase in performance observed.
The increase in electron mobility is likely a result of improvements in the network formation of the fullerene phase which has been reported in other studies where increased phase separation in thin films resulting from improved crystallinity of the donor polymer.
Devices based on amorphous polymer donor‐systems benefitted from the additional light‐absorption of the porphyrin units in MONs, which lead to small increases in the device J SC.
We believe that it should also be possible to engineer MONs that act as electron donors in fullerene‐free OPVs.
Fullerene acceptors typically possess excellent electron-transporting properties and can work as guest components in ternary organic solar cells to enhance the charge extraction and efficiencies.
Herein we report the use of a poly(fullerene-alt-xylene) acceptor (PFBO-C12) as guest component enables a significant efficiency increase from 16.9% for binary cells to 18.0% for ternary all-polymer solar cells.
This work demonstrates that introducing polyfullerenes as guest components is an effective approach to achieving highly efficient ternary all-polymer solar cells with good stability and mechanical robustness.Fullerene acceptors typically suffer from undesirable segregation and dimerization.
Here, the authors report a poly(fullerene-alt-xylene) acceptor as guest component to facilitate charge transfer and suppress charge recombination, achieving efficiency of 18% for ternary all-polymer solar cells.
Owing to the extensive research efforts devoted to material development and device optimization5–7, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of OSCs based on small-molecular acceptors (SMAs) have exceeded 19% recently8–11, demonstrating their great potential as one of the most promising emerging solar technologies.
To this end, all-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs), which employ both polymeric donors and acceptors as light absorbers (Supplementary Fig.
2)21–28, the all-PSCs based on Y-series polymer acceptors have realized decent efficiencies of over 17%29–34.
A poly(fullerene-alt-xylene) acceptor, named PFBO-C12, was synthesized and introduced as the guest component in ternary all-PSCs.
The polymer acceptor PY-V-γ was synthesized according to our previous works30,47.
The absorption spectra of PM6:guest acceptor (10% weight ratio) films exhibit the 0–0 peak enhancement from PCBM to PFBO-C12 (Supplementary Fig.
Regarding the majority polymer acceptor in films, introducing the fullerene/polyfullerene guest acceptors was found to strengthen the intensity of PY-V-γ at λmax, film (~830 nm), implying their comparable miscibility and co-crystallization tendency in films (Supplementary Fig. 4c).
1Materials and optoelectronic characterization.a Chemical structures of PM6 (polymer donor), PY-V-γ (polymer acceptor), PCBM (fullerene guest), and PFBO-C12 (polyfullerene guest).
a Chemical structures of PM6 (polymer donor), PY-V-γ (polymer acceptor), PCBM (fullerene guest), and PFBO-C12 (polyfullerene guest).
A small energy offset between donors and acceptors can effectively suppress the charge-transfer (CT) state recombination through the hybridization of the local excited (LE) state and the CT state, resulting in reduced non-radiative recombination loss62.
Due to the higher occupied orbitals of the guest components, the energy level offsets decrease between PM6 and the acceptors when the guest component is mixed with the PY-V-γ.
The smallest Eloss of the PFBO-C12-based device should mainly result from the higher degree of conformational order of the polymer acceptor, with denser packing, fewer vibration states, and suppressed non-radiative recombination as above.
Since PY-V-γ is selectively excited, the rise of PM6 GSB at ~640 nm can only result from the hole transfer from the acceptor to PM6, thus allowing us to probe the hole transfer process by monitoring the GSB of PM6.
A bi-exponential model was introduced to fit the rise of donor GSB63.
The rise lifetime τ1/τ2 are 1.48/21.37, 1.28/11.71, and 0.79/9.06 ps for the PM6:PY-V-γ, PM6:PY-V-γ:PCBM, and PM6:PY-V-γ:PFBO-C12, respectively (τ1 can be attributed to the exciton dissociation time at donor/acceptor interface, while τ2 represents the exciton diffusion time to the interface).
Besides, it is also noteworthy that the lifetime of the donor GSB signal of the PFBO-C12-based blend is slower (~3 ns), which is longer than the other two blends (~2 ns), implying a suppressed bimolecular recombination process in the polyfullerene system.Fig.
4h, the donor GSB emerges within our measurement time resolution (~150 fs) in all the blends, while the ternary blends show a faster rise of the acceptor GSB.
For the binary blend, there is only FRET from donor to acceptor.
This also agrees with that the two ternary blends show stronger acceptor GSB signals than that of the binary blend.
In addition, we also observe a slower decay of the acceptor GSB signal for the binary blend after 10 ps (Fig. 4i).
This timescale corresponds to the rise of donor GSB after the fast electron transfer process from donor to acceptor.
Since hole transfer leads to the significant decrease of acceptor GSB signal (as suggested by 800 nm excitation TA), this slower decay also suggests the slower hole transfer of the binary blend.
In this work, we successfully introduce a poly(fullerene-alt-xylene) acceptor (PFBO-C12) as the guest component for high-performance all-PSCs.
OSCs were made followed a device structure of glass/ITO (indium tin oxide)/PEDOT:PSS(poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrene sulfonate))/PM6:acceptor/PNDIT-F3N ([(9,9-bis(3’-(N,N-dimethylamino)propyl)−2,7-fluorene)-alt-5,5’-bis(2,2’-thiophene)−2,6-naphthalene-1,4,5,8-tetracaboxylic-N,N’-di(2-ethylhexyl)imide])/Ag.
PM6 was dissolved in chlorobenzene (CB, the concentration of donor was 9 mg mL−1) and stirred at 60 °C for 5 h to form a donor solution.
The acceptor materials were dissolved in chloroform (CF, the concentration of acceptor was 9 mg mL−1) with the solvent additive of CN (1.5% of volume) with/without PCBM and PFBO-C12 followed by stirring at room temperature (RT) for 1 h to form the acceptor solution.
For sequential deposition (SD)-based devices, PM6 solution was spun followed by the solution of the acceptor, and then the active layer was annealed at 100 °C for 5 min via SD processing.
For the hole transfer study, a pump of 800 nm was used to selectively photoexcite the acceptor part.
[1] Although substantial improvements to device efficiencies have been achieved through developing new donor polymers (typically low-bandgap, Eg∼1.6–1.8 eV), [6,6]-phenyl-C61/71-butyric acid methyl esters (PCBM) have remained one of the best electron acceptors since their introduction almost two decades ago.
Besides limiting the device lifetime through reacting with oxygen to produce highly reactive radical anion, O2−,[7],[8] the PCBM triplets can transfer into low-energy triplets on the donor polymer rather than separating into charge-carriers.
Driven by the large energy difference, they can transfer into low-energy triplet excitons on the donor polymer, which are then quickly quenched by the charges.
The light-absorbing layer of an OPV cell is a finely intermixed thin-film of the donor polymer and fullerene acceptor.
[15] These neutral excitations are photogenerated on both the donor polymer and the fullerene domains, and charge generation occurs across the interface.
[16] It is now considered that the superior device performance achieved with fullerene derivatives such as PCBM as the acceptor is due to their ability to grow pure aggregates (about 10 nm) near finely intermixed domains.
Several recent studies have reported that recombination occurred through the triplet states of the donor polymer when blended with fullerene derivatives such as ICMA and ICBA.
This should be taken into consideration for the design of future OPV acceptors.
Two novel non-fullerene acceptors, namely BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br, were synthesized by employing a ladder-type electron-deficient-based fused ring central with a benzotriazole core.
Our study demonstrates that bromination and effective extension of the conjugate length can modulate performance from different aspects to optimize photovoltaic characteristics.Two novel non-fullerene acceptors, namely BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br, were synthesized by employing a ladder-type electron-deficient-based fused ring central with a benzotriazole core.
The photoactive layers of bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) are usually constructed with electron donors and acceptors.1 Electron acceptors include commonly fullerene-based acceptors or non-fullerene fused-ring acceptors (NFAs).
Among acceptor innovations, NFAs have become the main materials of OSCs because of reduced energy loss for a high Voc and extended absorption range for a high Jsc, which is essential requirements for high PCE.6,7 The first breakthrough was made in 2015 for the development of NFAs.
reported a fused-ring electron acceptor (FREA), named ITIC, with an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) structure.3 The structure was further optimized to boost the PCE of OSCs to 13–15%.8–12 In order to further improve the photoelectric properties of A–D–A type NFAs, an electron-deficient (A′) unit was introduced into the central fused-ring of the A–D–A molecule to form an A–DA′D–A structure by Zou et al., named BZIC2 (Fig.
First, in order to strengthen D–A interactions and enhance intermolecular and intramolecular interactions, the electron-deficient unit, such as benzothiadiazole (BT), was introduced19 into the fused ring, contributing to improve the electron mobility and molecular aggregation.20 For the conjugated system, pyrrole-bridging rings can be used as electron donors due to their strong electron-donating ability,21 which is beneficial to upshift the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level and reduce the bandgap of NFAs.
The typical A–DA′D–A structure makes for a low nonradiative recombination loss from electroluminescence quantum efficiency based on these acceptors.23,24
Halogens have been widely used in organic semiconductors.33–35 The introduction of halogen atoms can adjust the photoelectric properties of materials, such as the absorption and energy levels.36–42 Therefore, for non-fullerene OSCs, halogenation is a very promising molecular design strategy to further improve the performance.43 Compared to the fluorination and chlorination, the bromine atom is rarely incorporated into the non-fullerene acceptors.
found that bromine atoms were introduced into NFAs, showing the same or even better device performance in comparison with F and Cl.45 Zhang further studied the effects of introducing one or two bromine atoms into NFAs, and the results show that one bromine-substituted molecule exhibits better device performance.46 Therefore, when the brominated small molecules are used as acceptors, the device performances may be further improved.47–50 In addition, increasing the molecular conjugation length of molecules is another measure to optimize photovoltaic properties.51–56 The first reported A–DA′D–A NFA, BZIC, showed a moderate PCE of 6.3%.2 When the pentacyclic ring was extended to a heptacyclic one to obtain Y1, resulting in PCEs of 13.42%, the reason of which is that increasing the molecular conjugation length can improve light absorption capability and charge transport.28
The chemical structures of these new small molecule acceptors (SMAs) were fully characterized by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR).
The higher LUMO energy level of the acceptor is beneficial for the OSC device to obtain a higher Voc.
(a) Cyclic voltammetry curves of BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br; (b) UV-Visible absorption spectra of PBDB-T in film, BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br in solution and thin film state, respectively; (c) device structure used for OSC fabrication; (d) energy level diagrams of donors (PBDB-T), and acceptors (BZIC,2 BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br).
2(b) shows the ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectra of the small molecule acceptors BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br in the chloroform solution and thin film.
To further investigate the photovoltaic performance, poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethyl-hexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))] (PBDB-T) was chosen as the donor to match with BZIC-2Br and Y9-2Br, respectively, used as the active layer to construct OSCs, while the device structure was prepared as ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PBDB-T:BZIC-2Br(PBDB-T:Y9-2Br)/PDINO/Al (Fig.
In summary, two non-fullerene acceptors using the A–DA′D–A structure multifused benzotriazole central core are designed and synthesized.
By using a medium bandgap polymer PBDB-T as the electron donor, OSCs based on PBDB-T:BZIC-2Br and PBDB-T:Y9-2Br exhibit different properties.
Nanoscale composite of detonation nanodiamond (DND) and polypyrrole (PPy) as a representative of organic light-harvesting polymers is explored for energy generation, using nanodiamond as an inorganic electron acceptor.
Small molecule non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) made a break-through in OPV efficiency in the past few years due to their optical properties and electronic levels tunability as well as high thermal, photochemical and morphological stability8,9.
Substituting organic acceptor in OPV with inorganic nanoparticles can bring the benefits as well, namely (1) improvement of optoelectronic stability of the solar cells; (2) enhancement of the light absorption range by changing the size or surface chemistry of the nanoparticle and consequently, its bandgap; (3) enhanced light scattering with subsequently enhanced light absorption11,12; (4) enhancement of the light-harvesting since the rate of the photoinduced charges transfer in the inorganic material is of a picosecond order and faster than their recombination rate; (5) morphology of the inorganic materials is tailorable to produce simultaneously efficient exciton dissociation interfaces and free charge-transporting pathways13,14; (6) inexpensive fabrication cost.
In this respect, the different forms of carbon have been under investigation for the role of electron acceptor in OPV15–17.
Upon mixing with C60, it acts as an electron donor25,26.
Meanwhile, bonded to P3HT27,28 and or porphyrin derivative29, nanodiamond acts as an electron acceptor.
We expected to address several issues with the spin-coating procedure, namely (a) more light can be absorbed by an increased amount of the material, (b) pinholes in the sample layer are avoided, (c) continuous pathways in electron donor and electron acceptor materials are created that improves the charge transport to the electrodes.
The positive polarity of SPV shows that DND acts as an electron acceptor and leave the positive charge on PPy molecules.
In this case, acceptor defects such as InCu and GaCu at CIGS interface and ground boundaries will be passivated.
In order to study the light trapping effect in OPV device, we employed poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]], (PTB7, 1-materials inc.) as a donor part.
As an acceptor, phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM, Ossila) is used.
A linear–shaped small organic molecule (E)-4-(5-(3,5-dimethoxy-styryl)thiophen-2-yl)-7-(5″-hexyl-[2,2′:5′,2″-terthiophen]-5-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (MBTR) comprising a benzothiadiazole (BTD) acceptor linked with the terminal donors bithiophene and dimethoxy vinylbenzene through a π-bridge thiophene was synthesized and analyzed.
With the addition of 3% 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO), the PCE improved to 8.76% with a high VOC of 1.02 V, JSC of 13.78 mA/cm2, and FF of 62.3%, which are associated with improved charge transport at the donor/acceptor interfaces owing to the fibrous active layer morphology and favorable phase separation.
These results demonstrate that the introduction of suitable donor/acceptor groups in molecular design and device engineering is an effective approach to enhancing the photovoltaic performances of organic solar cells.
Over the past few years, BHJ OSCs containing small molecules have achieved exciting progress while benefitting from the development of new photoactive materials and device structure engineering approaches, with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) exceeding 18% for non-fullerene acceptor (NFA)-based OSCs [8,9,10,11].
Over time, fullerene derivatives such as phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM, PC71BM) have been widely used as electron acceptors to construct BHJ OSCs.
In OSCs, the fullerene PCBM is an important class of electron acceptors because of its potential characteristics of high electron affinity, increased carrier mobility, and ability to form evenly distributed surfaces for efficient electron transport [13].
recently developed efficient donor molecules containing donor–acceptor–donor (D–A–D) units that exhibited a PCE of 8.00% when blended with a PCBM acceptor [14].
reported a reasonable PCE of 6.88% using a simple benzoselenadiazole containing small molecules and systematic optimization of the end groups with different electron donor units, such as triphenylamine (TPA) and alkyl bithiophene [15].
The selection of an appropriate donor–acceptor unit for developing small molecules is very important in the design of semiconducting materials for achieving high electrical properties [19].
From the molecular design perspective, the optical and energy levels of conjugate molecules can be realistically tuned by substituting different electron donating/accepting groups, such as alkylated bithiophene, alkyl phenyl, and heterocyclic units, in the donor/acceptor backbone [20,21,22,23,24].
However, thiophene and oligothiophene derivates have been extensively studied as donor units for developing small organic molecules owing to their ease of synthesis, superb stability, and excellent hole/electron transport characteristics [29,30,31].
In particular, oligothiophene is proven to be efficient in the design of D–A–D conjugated molecules along with an electron-deficient acceptor unit, since these molecules increase the light-harvesting ability through intramolecular charge transfer [32].
The designed molecule was utilized as donor material in fullerene-based BHJ OSCs, delivering a PCE of 4.05% with extended Jsc of 10.43 mA/cm2.
It has been reported that the incorporation of electron-rich thiophene and its derivative as the π-bridge between the donor and acceptor units not only extends the conjugation length and π–π stacking ability, but also broadens the absorption band and molecular coplanarity while enhancing charge mobility [36].
Inspired by the above discussed photophysical and electronoic properties of BTD, thiophene and its derivatives, and vinyl benbenzene, the present work focuses on the synthesis of a new small molecule (E)-4-(5-(3,5-dimethoxy-styryl)thiophen-2-yl)-7-(5″-h-exyl-[2,2′:5′,2″-terthiophen]-5-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (MBTR) in a stepwise synthetic pathway using BTD as the central core unit that is end-capped with different donor hexyl bithiophene and methoxy substituted moieties connected through the π-bridge thiophene unit.
The synthesized MBTR is applied as a donor molecule with a fullerene acceptor (PC71BM) for the fabrication of BHJ OSCs with or without a 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) additive.
As shown in Figure 2b, the active layer blend film loaded with different weight amounts of the MBTR and PC71BM acceptor exhibits absorption in the range of 320–670 nm.
The charge transfer at the active layer interface depends on the HOMO–HOMO and LUMO–LUMO offset values between the utilized donor and acceptor materials [43].
Effective electron transfer occurs at the donor/acceptor (D/A) interface from the MBTR donor to the PC71BM acceptor owing to a sufficient driving force of 0.30 (without DIO) and 0.25 eV (with DIO) between the donor and acceptor LUMO levels for separation of the coulombic-bonded excitons into free charge carriers [44].
Furthermore, the VOC of the solar device is proportional to the difference between the donor HOMO and acceptor LUMO levels [45].
Therefore, a donor with a deep-lying HOMO level and large energy gap significantly results in a device with high VOC.
The photoactive blend films of optimized MBTR:PC71BM (1:2.5 w/w%) without and with DIO showed noticeable quenching effects of approximately 97% and 99%, respectively, against the pure MBTR film, indicating efficient photoinduced charge transfer (electron and hole) driven by the MBTR donor molecule and PC71BM acceptor [47].
However, the low quenching (90–94%) observed in the 1:1.5 and 1:3.5 (w/w%) ratios indicate limited electron and hole transfer from the donor to acceptor, which could explain the poor performance of PV devices [48].
The PV performances of BHJ devices fabricated with the electron donor MBTR and electron acceptor PC71BM with a ITO/PEDOT:PSS/photoactive layer/Au structure were investigated using the current density vs. voltage (J–V) measurements.
Upon the addition of DIO, the interfacial area between the donor and acceptor was enhanced, and photo exciton charge dissociation was facilitated, producing an enhanced VOC [51].
The accuracy of FF for organic devices was investigated by the fourth quadrant I-V characteristics of MBTR:PC71BM with the varying donor: acceptor (w/w% ratio) content under the illumination of 1.5 A.M. at 100 mW/cm2, which is explained in the supporting information (Figure S3).
This work demonstrates the synthesis of a low-bandgap BTD-based novel small-molecule donor (MBTR) linked through the thiophene π-bridge and end-capped with different donor units.
We fabricated organic solar devices with and without a DIO additive and examined the potential of the MBTR donor in combination with a fullerene acceptor.
This work suggests that suitable choices of the donor and acceptor units in designing small organic molecules can afford more competent donors for economically feasible OSCs.
The model proposed is universal for donor:acceptor (D:A) with low driving forces and predicts which D:A will benefit from a morphology optimization for highly efficient OSC.Understanding the mechanism of non-radiative losses in organic photovoltaics is crucial to improve the performance further.
These losses are mainly caused by recombination of the charge transfer (CT) states generated at the interface between the electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) materials7–11.
The recent introduction of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), with tunable energy levels and optical absorption, greatly improved the power conversion efficiencies (PCE) in OPV, which have now reached 17% in single-junction devices15–18.
The medium bandgap D–A copolymer WF3 was selected as electron donor material, while the electron acceptor was either the fullerene derivative PC70BM or the small molecule NFA O-IDTBR (Fig. 1a).
1Steady-state characterisation of organic solar cells.a Chemical structures of the donor and acceptor materials used in this work.
a Chemical structures of the donor and acceptor materials used in this work.
The observation is in agreement with a recent demonstration of ultrafast electron transfer across the donor–acceptor interface after exciting donors in NFA-blends32.
Since the formation of CT states from donor excitons outperforms all possible deactivation channels, it follows that the photoexcitation dynamics of our systems only depend on the HOMO–HOMO offsets; the LUMO–LUMO offsets do not contribute quantitatively as long as it is above a certain threshold value allowing the observed ultrafast transfer33.
2D, yields a small initial population of acceptor excitons (dark green spectrum).
The relative strength of this contribution approximately agrees with the expected amount of resonantly created acceptor excitons (about 30%), obtained by multiplication of the pump pulse spectral density with the pure donor and acceptor absorption spectra (Supplementary Information, Part 10).
Therefore, we can associate the initial population of O-IDTBR excitons with resonant creation, showing that ultrafast energy transfer from donor to acceptor excitons does not play a significant role in our samples.
An interesting point is the decay of acceptor excitons on the same time scale as the build-up of the CS state (compare green and black curves in Fig. 2F).
This is a direct consequence of the LE ⇔ CT equilibrium: the femtosecond pump pulse predominantly generates excitons in the donor phase.
However, acceptor LE states are accessible from CT states, and therefore an equilibration must occur.
An alternative explanation, namely diffusion of residual acceptor excitons followed by dissociation, can be excluded because it would not lead to monoexponential decay kinetics.
We have performed a comparative study using narrowband excitation exclusively in resonance with the acceptor or the donor exciton (Supplementary material, Part 6).
We also observed a possible diffusion limitation of hole transfer after resonantly exciting the acceptor exciton; this has been found recently and ascribed to a lower wavefunction extension in the small molecule NFA system as compared to the donor polymer32.
However, there is substantial uncertainty in this value due to the limitations of the calculation, describing the interaction between a single donor monomer and a single acceptor molecule.
In order to understand the combination of high EQE and low VOC losses in WF3:O-IDTBR, we performed a multi-objective optimization, aiming to reproduce as closely as possible the three main results of this work (EQE > 80%, EL of blend indistinguishable from that of the pure acceptor, charge separation time 40 ps) by the simplest possible numerical model, taking into account both equilibria LE < = > CT and CT < = > CS and including radiative and non-radiative loss channels from LE and CT states.
For example, in similar IDTBR-based blends36, it was suggested that an intermixed donor–acceptor interface can increase the CT energy thus providing a driving force towards the bulk leading to energy-dependent charge dynamics on the picosecond timescale40.
Our model is generally valid for donor–acceptor blends of the low driving force so that an equilibrium LE-CT is formed.
S1b) as an electron-donating conjugated polymer and (6,6)-phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) as an electron acceptor.
For avoiding the unpreferable trade-off between photocurrent (JSC) and photovoltage (VOC), here we report the molecular engineering and comprehensive photovoltaic characterization of three cyclopentadithiophene-bridged D-A-π-A motif sensitizers with a change in donor group.
We make a careful choice on the donor and conjugation bridge for synergistically increasing JSC and VOC.
Organic sensitizers usually have a donor-π-bridge-acceptor (D−π−A) feature, with a characteristic intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) band that harvests sunlight for photon-to-electron conversion.
To minimize the limitation, a concept of D−A−π−A motif was proposed for designing a new generation of efficient and stable organic sensitizers, in which an auxiliary electron-withdrawing unit was incorporated into the conjugated bridge to facilitate electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor10111213141516171819202122232425.
1) with a change in donor group were rationally designed.
Several classical donor groups were incorporated in molecular skeleton to modulate the orbital levels for balancing the thermodynamic force between electron injection and dye regeneration.
Subsequently, the donor groups and the framework 3 coupled together via Suzuki reaction to give the sensitizer precursors 4, which were eventually converted to the target dyes (WS-37, WS-38 and WS-51) by reflux for 8 h in the presence of piperidine and acetonitrile.
All the dye sensitizers are dark purple in solid state, and exhibit purple red to dark purple in solutions with gradually enhanced electron donating capability in the donor units.
In this sense, the indoline unit in WS-51 is stronger than the traditional donor unit of tripenylamine unit1116.
Here the uplifted HOMO levels are in accordance with the increasing electron donating ability for each donor group.
Obviously, the good overlap between the HOMO−LUMO orbital can facilitate the electron migration from donor to the anchor unit, then to the conduction band of semiconductor TiO2.
Besides JSC, the different donor parts in WS-37, WS-38 and WS-51 have little impacts on VOC (690–700 mV).
Obviously, the different donor parts in WS-37, WS-38 and WS-51 have a negligible effect on the interfacial interactions or VOC.
The device performance indicates that the donor groups have a determined influence on the photocurrent but with little impact on photovoltage.
By selecting a suitable combination of a narrow bandgap donor polymer and a nonfullerene acceptor, stable OPVs are fabricated with a power conversion efficiency of 8.8% under 1 Sun and 14% under indoor lighting conditions.
The organic photoactive layer is composed of a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) of the highly efficient polymer donor PTB7-Th (poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b4,5-b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno [3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2–6-diyl]) with fullerene and nonfullerene acceptors (PC71BM and EH-IDTBR), as shown in Fig.
1Molecular structures of donor and acceptor molecules.PTB7 stands for the donor (poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]].
PTB7-Th corresponds to the donor (poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b4,5-b']dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno [3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl]).
PC71BM stands for the acceptor [6,6]-phenylC71-butyric acid methyl ester.
EH-IDTBR corresponds to the acceptor 5,5'-[[4,4,9,9-tetrakis(2-ethylhexyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b']dithiophene-2,7-diyl]bis(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-7,4-diylmethylidyne)]bis[3-ethyl-2-thioxo-4-thiazolidinone].
Molecular structures of donor and acceptor molecules.
PTB7 stands for the donor (poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]].
PTB7-Th corresponds to the donor (poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b4,5-b']dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno [3,4-b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl]).
PC71BM stands for the acceptor [6,6]-phenylC71-butyric acid methyl ester.
EH-IDTBR corresponds to the acceptor 5,5'-[[4,4,9,9-tetrakis(2-ethylhexyl)-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b']dithiophene-2,7-diyl]bis(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-7,4-diylmethylidyne)]bis[3-ethyl-2-thioxo-4-thiazolidinone].
The active layer was a BHJ of narrow bandgap donor polymers mixed with fullerene and nonfullerene acceptors.
Although fullerenes are effective acceptors for charge separation in OPVs, their absorption in the visible light spectrum is poor.
In the active layers of state-of-the-art highly efficient OPVs, the PC71BM fullerene acceptor is replaced by nonfullerene acceptors such as EH-IDTBR, with higher absorption in the visible range and thus higher efficiency32.
The donor polymer in the present investigation was selected based on its high PCE and the high open-circuit voltage, Voc = 1 V, under 1 Sun (100 mW/cm2) when blended with the nonfullerene acceptor used here.
The PCE of the nonfullerene acceptor BHJ (PTB7-Th:EH-IDTBR) is ~8.8%, and it has a higher Voc∼1 V than the fullerene-based BHJ solar cells.
The high Voc of the OPVs with BHJs based on a nonfullerene acceptor can be attributed to the reduced energy loss via nonradiative recombination during exciton dissociation and generation of charge carriers36–38.Fig.
In the case of the PTB7-Th:PC71BM blend, the donor:acceptor components were weighed in a ratio of 1:1.5, with a total concentration of 25 mg/mL in ortho-dichlorobenzene solvent.
For the PTB7-Th:EH-IDTBR blend system, the active layer solution was prepared by blending the donor-acceptor components in a 1:1 weight ratio, with a total concentration of 20 mg/mL in ortho-dichlorobenzene solvent.
It is commonly believed that a photogenerated exciton dissociates to generate a bound complex with charge transfer character at a donor:acceptor heterojunction and then separates into fully dissociated charge carriers [4–6] as illustrated in Figure 1.
From the electron acceptors, CdS [7–19], CdSe [20–46], CdTe [38,47–50], PbS [51–55], PbSe [56–60], ZnO [33,61–85] and TiO2 [13,86–102] etc., have been attempted so far, while more choices are available for conducting polymers.
Within these hybrid systems, the charge generation is fundamentally governed by the energy-level alignment at the donor/acceptor interfaces, while the photocurrent in the final device depends on the appropriate energy level alignment at the electrode interfaces.
demonstrated that the dissociation of photogenerated polaron pairs at the heterojunctions of CdS and several conducting polymer nanocomposites is assisted by the presence of crystalline electron acceptor domains [6].
In this regard, ordered hybrid solar cells are proposed as a promising structure, in which the donor and acceptor materials are interdigitated at the nanometer scale, providing more direct pathways for charge transport and avoiding the need for inter-nanoparticle hops.
This is achieved with overlapping absorption bands of donor and acceptor that increases the photon absorption strength in the range from about 570 to 700 nm, thus, almost all incident photons are absorbed in the active layer.
Most importantly, the unique nano-morphology of the donor:acceptor blend results in a substantially improved stability under illumination.
Understanding the efficient charge separation in nonfullerene acceptors can pave the way to robust and recombination-free organic solar cells.The nonfullerene-based small molecules start to attract more attention for solar cell research than the fullerene acceptors due to their wider tunability.
Solution-processed organic solar cells have traditionally relied mostly on the strong photon absorption provided by molecularly designed small molecule and polymer donor materials1.
In order to dissociate photo-generated excitons created on the donor molecules, an electron accepting molecule is required.
Traditionally, high power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) that are coupled with notable external quantum efficiencies (EQEs) had only been obtained using fullerene-based acceptor molecules.
While fullerene acceptors allow ultrafast charge separation and fairly efficient charge transport2, their optical absorption is poor in comparison to many polymers and other small molecules in the visible range.
Therefore, there have always been efforts to replace fullerene acceptors with molecules, which combine the advantages of fullerenes with a higher absorption strength3.
Only recently, efficient nonfullerene acceptor molecules (NFAs) have emerged that compete or even outperform fullerenes when mixed with high-efficiency donor molecules4–8.
This will result in a large overlap between the highest occupied molecular orbital and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor13–15.
Chemical structures of donor and acceptor molecules and current–voltage (J–V) characteristics of the PBDTTT-EFT:EHIDTBR (24 mg ml−1 in chlorobenzene solution) devices made using different ETLs in comparison to PBDTTT-EFT:PC71BM with 3% 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) devices are shown in Fig.
The substantially higher Voc of the nonfullerene devices results from tailored energy-level alignment between the frontier molecular orbitals at the donor/acceptor interface of the PBDTTT-EFT:EHIDTBR blend.
There has been a study about nonfullerene acceptor with PCEs up to 11%19, by far the highest efficiency reported using PBDTTT-EFT as the donor.
The PBDTTT-EFT:EHIDTBR cell achieves its high peak EQE by combining the absorption of donor and acceptor in the same photon energy region between 1.7 and 2.5 eV.
This suggests a blend morphology comprising primarily highly intermixed donor and acceptor molecules, enabling rapid exciton separation without requiring significant exciton diffusion.
The cooling scan shows a reduced re-crystallization, which can be described as having a mixed PBDTTT-EFT:EHIDTBR region, comprising a crystalline acceptor phase and pure polymer domains, which reduces the PL quenching as well (Supplementary Fig.
Based on these results, it is clear that polymer exciton separation leads to almost complete charge dissociation, with a negligible (<10%) yield of geminate recombination from any bound “charge transfer” or “polaron pair” states formed at the donor/acceptor interface.
Figure 2d depicts the PIA traces of PBDTTT-EFT blended with the two acceptors at 10 K. Notably, in agreement with the higher Jsc obtained for EHIDTBR-based solar cells, we found that the absorption feature at 1150 nm is considerably higher for the PBDTTT-EFT:EHIDTBR blend indicating larger polaron yield and/or longer polaron lifetimes compared to the PC71BM blend.
There have been efforts for such a nano-morphology in Organic solar cells (OSCs) using molecular locks or alloy acceptors in fullerene solar cells40,41; however, the high-efficiency devices usually suffered from optimization using solvent additives that cause demixing of the polymer:fullerene blend42–44.
The advantage of SIMS relies on its capability to track the elemental distribution in depth allowing us to obtain valuable information regarding the homogeneity and miscibility of the donor and acceptor across the active layer28,49.
However, C− and C3− signals are more concentrated in the first 50 nm depth beyond which they exhibit a clear decrease throughout the active layer, which is more likely to represent the fullerene acceptor.
Thus fullerene acceptors are located closer to the surface than ZnO when the PBDTTT-EFT:PC71BM blend is subjected to light radiation due to demixing that results in severe reduction in FF values.
In conclusion, we report a high-performance organic photovoltaics (OPV) system based on a small-molecule acceptor that delivers a PCE of 12% with an EQE around 90% and a Voc of 1.03 V. We elucidate that the concomitant effect of reduced geminate recombination and efficient charge separation leads to an exceptionally high Jsc of 20 mA cm−2.
It is also surprising that this blend consisting of an amorphous donor does not foster geminate losses but yields charges efficiently.
The larger pure domains of PBDTTT-EFT and crystalline acceptor phase of EHIDTBR (from DSC) enables the spatial separation of photo-generated carriers.
Moreover, the connection of electron-acceptor (A) acetylene groups with electron-donor (D) triphenylamine/thiophene groups could form a D-A-D alternating structure.
Thus, an intramolecular charge transportation between donor and acceptor units during excitation could significantly enhance the dipole moments of the HTM molecule, creating a built-in potential that promotes hole extraction [35,36,37].
Dithienopicenocarbazole (DTPC), as the kernel module in A-D-A non-fullerene acceptors (NFA), has been reported for its ultra-narrow bandgap, high power conversion efficiency, and extremely low energy loss.
To further improve the photovoltaic performance of DTPC-based acceptors, molecular engineering of end-capped groups could be an effective method according to previous research.
In this article, a class of acceptors were designed via bringing terminal units with an enhanced electron-withdrawing ability to the DTPC central core.
Our results also manifest that proper modifications of the terminal acceptor with extensions of π-conjugation might bring improved outcomes for overall properties.
Such a measure could become a feasible strategy for the synthesis of new acceptors, thereby facilitating the advancement of organic solar cells.
Fullerene and its derivatives have primarily been employed as acceptors and their widespread use has made significant contributions to the improved performance of OSCs (Sonar et al., 2011; Zhang et al., 2015).
In recent years, the above difficulties have given birth to non-fullerene acceptor materials, which offer several unique advantages, including low-cost facile synthesis, tunable flexibility of FMO energy levels, and superior capacity of light absorption in the visible region (Anthony, 2011; Ala'a et al., 2014; Li et al., 2015a; Lin et al., 2015).
However, researchers are still persisting in advancing progress in the research of non-fullerene acceptors (NFA).
Among numerous NFAs, the A-D-A type acceptors have received considerable attention from researchers (Li et al., 2019).
After abundant exploitation and rapid development, A-D-A acceptors have proven to be a wise design to date, and are likely to become potential alternatives to fullerenes (Kini et al., 2020).
A typical molecule is ITIC, which can be used in discussions on photovoltaic performances of different polymer donor materials (Shen et al., 2018).
Moreover, Hou's group developed a new acceptor IT-4F via adding the fluorine atom to the IC “A” units and achieved an increased efficiency of 13.7% (Zhao et al., 2017).
demonstrated a remarkable PCE of over 15% for the novel acceptor BTP-4F, which is structured by end capping the BTP central “D” core with the 2F-DCI “A” units (Yuan et al., 2019).
replaced the fluorine atom at the terminal of BTP-4F with the chlorine atom to form a new acceptor, namely BTP-4Cl, and obtained a high efficiency of 16.5%, which is the highest among reported OSCs (Cui et al., 2019).
have synthesized a novel non-fullerene acceptor consisting of a highly electron-rich core, Dithienopicenocarbazole (DTPC), and two terminal electron-withdrawing units, 2-(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene) malononitrile (DFIC), which is proven to obtain considerably narrow gaps of 1.21 eV, quite high PCE up to 10.21%, and exceedingly low energy loss for only 0.45 eV simultaneously (Yao et al., 2018).
However, DTPC-based acceptors would seem to be defective if compared to acceptors based on the core of IT and BTP, which are able to perform PCE over 13%, and still have more room for further research on higher PCE.
Fortunately, as with A-D-A type acceptors, the central “D” core and the terminal “A” units are of equal importance and both of them play an important role in the overall performance of NFAs (Dey, 2019).
In this article, we take DTPC-DFIC for reference (NFA 1) to innovatively design a series of new non-fullerene acceptors by the addition of enhanced electron-withdrawing terminal units to a DTPC core, as is shown in Figure 1.
Exploration of the above physical parameters closely correlated with PCE permits us to fully understand how such measures influence the photovoltaic performance of the device, and to seek potential alternatives to previous DTPC-based acceptors.
Molecular structures of the investigated acceptors.
Incidentally, the donor molecule PBT7-Th was simplified into repeated units (PBT7-Th)3 to save computational costs, as is shown in Supplementary Figure 1, and its geometrical structure was optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level and demonstrated in Supplementary Figure 2.
The dihedral angles and bond lengths between the DTPC core and end-capped acceptor are listed in Supplementary Table 2.
Taking molecular vibration when optimizing into consideration, the distortion could be overlooked, and excellent planarity is achieved between the core and acceptor.
As is known, the core of DTPC plays a significant role in expanding conjugate planes of molecules when used for acceptors.
Fortunately, for all A-D-A skeletal structures investigated, large planarity not only benefits from the DTPC core, but also relies on the coplanarity of the core and acceptor.
BLA values of neutral are obviously larger than anion, but a little smaller than cation, indicating that all molecules are suitable for acceptors rather than donors.
Clearly, all NFAs perform perfect adaptation to the donor PTB7-Th, ensuring minimal energy loss on electron transfer and as high an internal voltage as possible, and the introduction of an electron-withdrawing group changes their properties of energy levels greatly (Nielsen et al., 2015).
Hence, for A-π-A skeletal NFAs, proper modifications of the terminal acceptor could be accompanied with relatively high LUMO, further effectively increasing the value of open circuit voltages.
However, excessive π-conjugations at end-capped acceptors may not always be a good choice.
Last but not least, with the exploration of FMO distribution, we testify that it is feasible to raise LUMO energy levels by adjusting suitable end-cap acceptors.
where EHOMOD represents the HOMO energy level of the donor, while ELUMOA represents the LUMO energy level of acceptor, and ΔV is considered as exciton binding energy for charge separation.
As for non-fullerene acceptors, it is empirically referred to as 0.5 eV (Pan et al., 2016; Yin et al., 2018).
ΔEL−L is equal to the LUMO difference between donor and acceptor, which is intuitionally expressed by the formula (Faist et al., 2012):
From Table 2, the values of ΔEL−L are all higher than 0.3 eV, which ensures an adequate driving force for separated charges to transfer between donor and acceptor (Zhan and Yao, 2016).
Several previous pieces of research have substantiated that there will be excess energetic loss degenerating the efficiency of the device if the value is more than 0.8 eV (Li, 2012), so NFA 3 and 5 could not be regarded as advisable acceptors in view of their unsuitable driving force.
In this case, it is a requisite for non-fullerene acceptors to possess wide absorption spectra matching well with that of donor molecules and solar spectrums (Nielsen et al., 2015; Sui et al., 2017).
Delightfully, all NFAs exhibit perfect matching for the donor due to wider absorption in the area of 600–800 nm, where PTB7-Th presents a weak absorption.
Hence, NFA 2, 4, 7, and 8 are proven to be hopeful for high-efficient acceptors in terms of their admirable absorbing ability The excitation energies are in the order of 6 > 1 = 4 > 7 > 8 > 2, excellently corresponding to the sequence of band gap value.
It implies that suitable molecular engineering of end-capped units significantly affects the optical absorption of the designed acceptors and could be an effective strategy to enhance the short-circuit current density and further enlarge the photovoltaic energy conversion of the device.
According to previous research, NFA 1 is considered as a non-fullerene acceptor with high power conversion efficiency and low energy loss.
For the sake of thorough analysis on the cell performance of designed acceptors, we calculate energy loss of investigated NFAs corresponding to the equation below (Veldman et al., 2009; Li et al., 2015b):
where VOC represents open circuit voltage (which has been discussed above) and Egopt represents a relatively smaller optical band gap of donor and acceptor.
Hence, it may be promising to utilize the designed acceptors to improve the performance of OSCs due to the disappearance of limitation by large energy loss, and extended electron-withdrawing groups at the terminal may become favorable to decrease energy loss for non-fullerene molecules.
There is no doubt that the designed acceptors all possess slightly larger values of q, DCT, and Δμhalf compared to NFA 1 from Table 5, proving the deduction that the capacity of charge transfer increases with the addition of electron-withdrawing ability at the terminal group.
From Table 6, it is common for the designed acceptors to show slightly smaller values of stability than that of NFA 1.
Taking steric hindrances into consideration, we suppose that there is little difference in stability properties between NFA1 and designed acceptors.
Overall, it suggests that the introduction of different terminal units is favorable for the enhancement of hole–electron binding and molecular ionization, and would not cause significant variation in the stability of the acceptors.
In this article, we design a class of novel non-fullerene acceptors based on dithienopicenocarbazole as the kernel module theoretically, and investigate the relevant qualitative parameters associated with JSC and VOC of these proposed molecules systematically.
Though NFA 2, 7, and 8 do not highlight their value of VOC like NFA 4, they exhibit superior optoelectronic properties of strong charge transfer and small energy loss, which corresponds to higher JSC, and could still be optimal acceptors with preferable photovoltaic performance.
Finally, we believe this work could provide helpful guidelines for better and faster designing of DTPC-based photovoltaic molecules, and could shed light on the study of high-performance non-fullerene acceptors materials.
Small push–pull molecules attract much attention as prospective donor materials for organic solar cells (OSCs).
Here we report the synthesis and early time photophysics of such a molecule, TPA-2T-DCV-Me, based on the triphenylamine (TPA) donor core and dicyanovinyl (DCV) acceptor end group connected by a thiophene bridge.
Using time-resolved photoinduced absorption and photoluminescence, we demonstrate that in blends with [70]PCBM the molecule works both as an electron donor and hole acceptor, thereby allowing for two independent channels of charge generation.
Our findings demonstrate the potential of TPA-DCV-based molecules as donor materials for both solution-processed and vacuum-deposited OSCs.
The efficiency of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) based on small molecular (SM) donors1−5 is constantly increasing, with efficiencies of over 10% achieved.1,6−11 In addition to high efficiencies, SMs demonstrate unique benefits over more conventional polymers such as high purity, batch-to-batch reproducibility, well-defined molecular structure, molecular weight, and so on.12−14 Moreover, low-molecular-weight SMs make vacuum processability possible,15−18 which can be utilized to create highly efficient OSCs with low energy disorder to facilitate long-range exciton transport.19,20
In the design concept introduced by Tereniziani22 and Roncali,23 a triphenylamine (TPA) donor core and dicyanovinyl (DCV) acceptor end groups led to improved solubility, better layer-to-layer stacking in films, and high hole mobility.
The substitution of the active proton in DCV by an alkyl improves the stability while retaining all other benefits, as has been previously shown for the series of star-shaped26−31 and linear molecules.31,32 A similar strategy was very recently undertaken by Bakiev et al.,33 who reported the synthesis and basic photophysical properties (absorption and photoluminescence spectra in solution) of a TPA-2T-DCV-Me molecule with methyldicyanovinyl as the acceptor group (Figure 1a).
(a) Chemical structures of the TPA-2T-DCV-Me small molecular donor and [70]PCBM electron acceptor.
(b) Frontier orbital energy levels of TPA-2T-DCV-Me and the [70]PCBM acceptor34 as measured by cyclic voltammetry.
For solar cell operation, the optimal donor/acceptor ratio amounts to 1:2 because of the competition between charge generation and nongeminate recombination due to too fine a BHJ morphology.
A standard ODCB solvent was used to ensure the dissolution of the [70]PCBM acceptor, which is needed to maximize the OSC efficiency.
The donor solution was then mixed with [70]PCBM solution in volume ratios of 3:1 to 1:20.
Photovoltaic layers, consisting of small-molecule donor TPA-2T-DCV-Me and fullerene acceptor [70]PCBM with different D/A weight ratios in ODCB (10 mg mL–1 in total) were bladed on top of the PEDOT/PSS layer.
Similar to the N(Ph-2T-DCV-Me)3 SSM,38 both bands have a mixed CT and π–π* character:38−40 in the excited state, the electron density is delocalized over the DCV acceptor and thiophene linkers.33 Note that intermolecular interactions in the solid film also affect the absorption band position and red shift the absorption spectrum by ∼20 nm as compared to the noninteracting molecules diluted in the PMMA matrix (SI, Figure S3b) as a result of the different polarizability of the environment.41 The maximum of the low-energy absorption band of TPA-2T-DCV-Me in the PMMA matrix is 12 nm blue-shifted as compared to the N(Ph-2T-DCV-Me)3 SSM (∼494 vs ∼506 nm, respectively, SI, Figure S3).
Because [70]PCBM absorbs a significant number of photons in the visible and near-UV regions, the charges in [70]PCBM-based OSCs are generated from both the donor phase and [70]PCBM phase with comparable efficiencies.34,38,50−53 Consequently, the definition of FOM47 should be modified to include both TPA-2T-DCV-Me and [70]PCBM phases4where ICT is the intensity of CT PL, I[70]PCBM is the intensity of [70]PCBM singlet PL, and ISM is the intensity of TPA-2T-DCV-Me singlet PL.47
It does not seem possible to draw any conclusions about the exact pathway of PL decay of the CT state from the PL measurements alone: it can be due to CT state back recombination to the ground state, back electron transfer to the donor/acceptor phase with formation of a singlet or triplet exciton,57,58 or/and CT state separation into charges.
When the external acceptor ([70]PCBM) is added to the blend, the dynamics become more complex because now they involve both intramolecular dynamics in the donor and acceptor phases and intermolecular charge separation/recombination processes.
For the intermolecular charge transfer, the change ΔG in the Gibbs free energy between the excited and charge-separated states is calculated as66−685where IPD is the donor ionization potential (in the first approximation, equal to the modulus of the TPA-2T-DCV-Me HOMO energy), EAA is the acceptor electron affinity (approximately the modulus of [70]PCBM LUMO energy), and Eexciton is the energy of the photogenerated exciton (∼2.07 eV, equal to the energy of the 0–0 transition).
On one hand, adding the [70]PCBM acceptor opens a new pathway for charge separation as CT excitons from TPA-2T-DCV-Me are split at the BHJ interface (Figure 7b, red symbols) due to the sufficient energy offsets for electron transfer (Figure 1b).
In this article, we have reported the efficient synthesis of the push–pull molecule with the TPA donor core and methyl-DCV acceptor33 by the extension of the universal synthetic platform developed previously for the star-shaped30,31 and linear molecules.31,32 Because of its push–pull nature, the molecule demonstrates broad absorption in the UV–vis region, which is slightly blue-shifted as compared to its star-shaped counterpart, N(Ph-2T-DCV-Me)3.
The separation of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor (EDHOMO–EALUMO) was measured for each bilayer because EDHOMO–EALUMO is a strong factor in determining the magnitude of the measured open circuit voltage (VOC) of an OPV cell based on a donor–acceptor heterojunction [21,22].
The energy level difference between the HOMO of the donor (ZnPc) and the LUMO of the acceptor (C60), EDHOMO–EALUMO is an important factor in determining the magnitude of VOC of OPVs based on a donor–acceptor heterojunction.
There are several factors that can affect the magnitude of EDHOMO–EALUMO at the donor–acceptor interface, including the ionization potential of a donor, the electron affinity of an acceptor, the formation of interface dipoles, and charge redistribution across the interfaces.
In this case, the band bending of ZnPc was observed only at the ZnPc/V2O5 #2 interface, and the band bending moved the HOMO of the donor (ZnPc) toward higher binding energies and increased the EDHOMO–EALUMO value.
Therefore, not only the work functions of new TCOs but also the charge neutrality level of donors should be considered for controlling the VOC for high-efficiency OPVs.
The PDI derivatives showed excellent electron conductivity without doping and 5–10× higher electron mobility than that of state-of-the-art fullerene acceptor phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM).
TAS showed ultrafast charge transfer from the poly(3-hexyl)thiophene (P3HT) donor polymer to PDI and formation of long-lived charge-separated states similar to fullerene derivative PC61BM/P3HT blends.
However, bay substituents affect electronic and optical properties, resulting in alteration of photophysical properties.25,26 In 2007, Marder and co-workers synthesized the first conjugated polymer-acceptor having the bay-substituted PDI with alternating dithienothiophene and PDI units exhibiting high electron mobility ∼1.3 × 10–2 cm2 V–1 s–1 and high electron affinity with a lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level of −3.9 eV.27 The charge carrier mobility for this molecule was characterized in OFET geometry.
There is still lack of complete characterization and analysis of substituents’ effect on electrical and photophysical properties in neat as well donor/PDI blends.
There are only a few reports on the study of PDI/donor mixtures for charge separation dynamics.28 Recently, Tamai and co-workers reported the time evolution of electroabsorption caused by the electric field generated within electron–hole pairs using transient absorption spectroscopy (TAS) in a polymer solar cell with a perylene diimide (PDI) dimer acceptor.29 From the study, they found that the charge carriers were generated very efficiently, i.e., ∼90% of quantum yield, and separated within <1 ps.
To expand the scope of PDI materials for efficient charge generation and charge separation and transport, the present work describes the synthesis and characterization of four PDI derivatives having a strong electron acceptor core substituted with different amine groups at the imide N position (Figure 1).
The charge transport measurements of PDI derivatives were evaluated by the standard space charge limited current (SCLC) model and compared with the state-of-the-art fullerene acceptor phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM).
Transient absorption spectroscopy (TAS) ascertained ultrafast charge separation and formation of long-lived charge-separated states in these PDI derivatives on mixing with donor polymer poly(3-hexyl)thiophene (P3HT).
However, all of the PDIs show comparable electron mobility to other reported PDIs (measured by the SCLC method).43 Also, these PDIs show 5–10× higher mobility than that of the state-of-the-art fullerene acceptor PC61BM (0.1 × 10–3 cm2 V–1 s–1), making these PDIs potential acceptor materials for non-fullerene organic solar cells.50
Transient absorption spectroscopy has been performed to study the generation of charge-separated states in the donor/PDI blends for their future applications as acceptors in organic solar cells.
We have chosen the most common donor polymer, i.e., P3HT.
This clearly indicates the electron transfer from the P3HT excited state to acceptor molecules, resulting in formation of charge-separated states with long lifetimes as seen in P3HT/methanofullerene blends.53 The ultrafast charge transfer from the donor to acceptor favors the efficient charge carrier generation, and the long lifetime of the charge carriers reduces the recombination losses in solar cells.
In agreement with previous studies, a triexponential model appears to be optimal to fit the decay, each exponential corresponding to one of three components: radiative decay involving surface states (shortest decay time on the order of 1 ns), closest and next-to-closest donor acceptor pair recombination (typical decay times of 10 ns and 100 ns, respectively).50,51 Therefore, unlike classical CdS or CdSe QD systems, the fitting of the CuInS2 and CuInSxSe2–x PL decays results in three distinct lifetimes.
In solar cell heterostructures they not only serve as a charge selective contact, but also act as electron acceptor.
Although ZnO offers a suitable interface for exciton dissociation, charge separation efficiencies have stayed rather poor and conceptual differences to organic acceptors are rarely investigated.
For this purpose, we use the polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene) as donor and the squaraine dye SQ2 as interlayer.
(b) Normalized absorbance spectra of the donor polymer P3HT and the dye molecules SQ2 acting as photoactive materials.
(b) Normalized absorbance spectra of the donor polymer P3HT and the dye molecules SQ2 acting as photoactive materials.
The latter, as we shall see, being low dielectric constant molecular solids have quite different (excitonic) physics and rely upon nano-phase-separated blends of donor (analogously p-type) and acceptor (n-type) components to create the junction.
In organic semiconductors, these states are thought to be the charge-transfer (CT) states at the donor-acceptor interface7–9.
Depending on their energy offset relative to the singlet excitons, they can also be very difficult to identify—this is a particular emerging problem in the so-called non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) systems which are delivering record power conversion efficiencies of ~18%10 and have low or negligible offsets11,12.
The value of JPh is dominated by the absorption of the singlet states of the donor and the acceptor (energies equal to or higher than the gap) where there is a substantial overlap between the EQEPV and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\mathrm{{\Phi} }}_{{\mathrm{sun}}}$$\end{document}Φsun.
Figure 1 shows the measured ultra-sensitive EQEPV for various solar cells including organic semiconductors, both fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor based, as well as inorganic24,25.
1, the EQEPV is plotted versus photon energy (in eV) for the high efficiency donor-acceptor blends PM6:ITIC, PCDTBT:PC70BM, PM6:Y6, as well as a crystalline Silicon (c-Si) solar cell (ultra-sensitive EQEPV spectra for a large number of systems are provided in the Supplementary Fig.
2a we present the ultra-sensitive EQEPV spectrum of a solar cell based upon the well-understood donor-acceptor system PCDTBT:PC70BM.
Here, T(E) is the cavity (solar cell) spectral throughput while the function2\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g\left( {E,\;E_{{\mathrm{CT}}},\;\lambda _{{\mathrm{CT}}},\;f_{{\mathrm{CT}}}} \right) = \frac{{f_{{\mathrm{CT}}}}}{{E\sqrt {4\pi \lambda kT} }}\exp \left( { - \frac{{\left[ {E_{{\mathrm{CT}}} + \lambda _{{\mathrm{CT}}} - E} \right]^2}}{{4\lambda _{{\mathrm{CT}}}kT}}} \right)$$\end{document}gE,ECT,λCT,fCT=fCTE4πλkTexp−ECT+λCT−E24λCTkTparametrizes the CT state in terms of ECT which is the energy difference between the ground and excited state of the CT state, λCT which is the reorganization energy due to the formation of the CT state, and fCT which is a measure of the strength of the donor-acceptor coupling and also proportional to the density of the CT states7,28,29.
The energy of the low-energy (LE) sub-gap states appears to be exactly half of the CT state energy for PCDTBT:PC70BM, suggesting they are associated with mid-gap states at the donor-acceptor interface.
m-MTDATA is a small molecule donor with a shallow HOMO level in the gap of PCDTBT:PC70BM (the energetics are schematically represented in the Supplementary Fig. 3).
Figure 3a shows a schematic diagram of the energy levels at the donor-acceptor interface of an organic solar cell.
The energy levels of the acceptor LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) and the donor HOMO are denoted by ELUMO, A and EHOMO, D, respectively.
An electron in the HOMO level of the donor (CT ground state) absorbs a low-energy photon (lower than the energy needed for CT state excitation) and is promoted to a state in the middle of the gap, resulting in the formation of a mid-gap state.
The excited (trapped) electron in the mid-gap state can then be further released (from the trap) to the acceptor LUMO and thus contribute to charge generation if it absorbs a photon with energy higher than the trap energy depth (ELUMO, A–Et offset).
Note that this photon energy can be much lower than the CT state energy but needs to be large enough to promote the electron from the trap state into the acceptor LUMO.Fig.
3Photon up-conversion by optical release from trap states.a Schematic energy level diagram at the donor-acceptor interface including mid-gap trap states.
a Schematic energy level diagram at the donor-acceptor interface including mid-gap trap states.
[3]  The fine structure‐function‐reactivity relationship that exists for naturally occurring photosynthetic reaction centers has prompted the design and the preparation of a variety of electron donor‐acceptor ensembles, which have been developed and applied to many technologically relevant research fields, such as light‐electricity conversion, light‐fuel production, and optoelectronic devices.
Thus, porphyrinoids represent the natural choice in the design of multicomponent electron‐donor‐acceptor systems to mimic the natural reaction center as a replacement of the synthetically demanding and relatively unstable chlorophylls.
Cor have widely been incorporated into multicomponent conjugates as electron donors due to their low oxidation potential, especially when compared with the porphyrin analogues.
[10]  Pc have been proven to act as excellent electron acceptor counterparts, particularly when endowed with strong electron‐withdrawing substituents.
[12]  In both cases, the two differently substituted Cor operate as primary electron donors after photoexcitation, while the conjugated electron accepting Pc functions as primary electron acceptor.
It is noteworthy that in the natural systems the light harvesters of the antennas as well as the electron donors and electron acceptors in the reaction centers are brought together through non‐covalent interactions.
Among the many different non‐covalent interactions, metal‐ligand coordination is an efficient means to self‐assemble Cor‐ and Pc‐based electron donor‐acceptor ensembles.
To elucidate the electronic behaviour of Cor and its function as light harvester and electron donor to power energy and/or electron transfer upon photoexcitation, we complemented our investigation by probing py‐CorF10 .
Importantly, py‐CorF10  is by far a better electron acceptor and a poorer electron donor than py‐CorM6 , due to the electron‐withdrawing substituents.
Combining py‐CorM6  and py‐CorF10  as electron donors and ZnPcR8  as electron acceptor, respectively, and realizing ZnPcR8  ⋅ py‐CorM6  and ZnPcR8  ⋅ py‐CorF10  results into charge‐separated state energies of 1.08 and 1.32 eV, respectively.
Importantly, even if perfluorinated, Cor proves to be an excellent electron donor, highlighting its utility as sensitizer in light‐harvesting applications.
As Hsiao’s report13, the resonance wavelength near the cutoff wavelength of the PTB7 donor will be very beneficial for enhancing the light absorption ability of the photoactive layer.
In the presence of a potential difference between the cathode and anode, the electrons generated at the anode are transferred from the photoanode electrode via an external circuit to the cathode where they undergo a reduction reaction to reduce the electron acceptor.
For example, the reported OmcA values for the bacterial outer membrane proteins of Schwannia cells compared to standard hydrogen electrodes (NHE) are -0.32 to −0.24 V and MtrC values of ∼ −0.1 V. When a semiconductor is selected as the cathode to couple to the Schwannia bioanode, the semiconductor valence band edge potential should be higher relative to the bacterial outer membrane proteins, and the cathode surface electron acceptor depends primarily on the electrolyte composition within the cathode chamber and the oxidation potential of the cathode surface.
With the composition of the cathode chamber and the redox potential on the cathode surface, oxygen is a good electron acceptor for the cathode due to its abundant sustainability and environmental cleanliness (Cheng and Logan, 2007).
In this study, we tested the ability to generate photocurrent by several formulations of blend (bulk heterojunction) of P3HT (which is electron donor material) with several electron acceptor materials, including Alq3 and bis(10-hydroxybenzo[h]quinolinato)beryllium (Bebq2).
P3HT is a conjugated polymer that serves as an electron donor, and performs the best in generating photocurrent when combined with electron acceptor materials in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) architecture [15].
We tested various photovoltaic devices with distinct modifications to generate photocurrent, and among all modified photovoltaic devices, the device with the bulk heterojunction architecture containing electron donor P3HT and electron acceptor Bebq2 was shown to be the most efficient device to generate photocurrent.
The photovoltaics mechanism of the electron donor-acceptor mechanism is currently the foundation of the main compositions of high efficiency organic solar cells.
The photovoltaics mechanism shares an advantage of the bulk heterojunction architecture to widen the interface between donor and acceptor, maximizes the probability of charge pair separation and limits the charge recombination process.
In this study, we developed a solar-cell like material with the main electron donor-acceptor composed of P3HT, Alq3 and BeBq2, as demonstrated in Figure 1B.
For a design of the active photo-sensor bulk heterojunction layer of a solar cell-like device, we used P3HT as an electron donor material, Alq3 and Bebq2 as electron acceptor materials (Figure 1A).
P3HT is a photoactive conjugated polymer with semiconductor properties that serves as an electron donor material, whereas its combination with electron acceptor materials results in charge separation and generation of the current.
The intimate blend of electron donor and acceptor phases, known as bulk heterojunction architecture, has proven to be highly effective in the generation of photocurrent and electric stimulation of interfaced cells [12,13,14,16].
In our study, we tested two types of bulk heterojunction architecture of P3HT-based solar cell devices, P3HT:Alq3 and P3HT:Bebq2, based on Alq3 and Bebq2 electron acceptor materials, respectively.
This mobility increase is typical, as it is generally accepted that the oxygen in air coordinates with surface MPc metal centres, acting as an electron acceptor/trap and increasing positive charge carrier density in the bulk film.32–34
Concurrently, it is hoped that the high dielectric constants of nanocrystals will aid charge separation and hinder back recombination at the interface.3 These properties make nanocrystals a promising candidate to replace fullerenes, which are not as widely tunable as nanocrystals, as electron acceptors in organic photovoltaic cells.
Recent studies employing a low-bandgap polymer with CdSe nanodots and tetrapods demonstrated efficiencies of up to 2.7% and 3.1%, respectively.4,5 While these devices show encouraging performance, solar cells employing nanocrystals as electron acceptors remain outperformed by conventional cells employing fullerene derivatives.
Time-resolved absorption studies have been employed successfully in the past to investigate charge-transfer rates in donor–acceptor systems such as blends of poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM).8,9 Polymer–fullerene systems are ideal candidates for transient absorption measurements due to the low optical cross-section of excited states in PCBM combined with the possibility of separately exciting the polymer.
Colloidal CdSe-NCs were used as the electron-accepting material and poly[2-methoxy-5-(3′,7′-dimethyloctyloxy)-1,4-phenylene vinylene] (MDMO-PPV) as the hole-transporting donor material.
In the absence of electron acceptors, excitons generated in the pure MDMO-PPV film decay without forming polarons.
The organic semiconductor layer was spin‐coated on to the Si/SiO2/Ta/Co as a light respond layer, where poly[4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl) benzo [1,2‐b:4,5‐b′] dithiophene‐co‐3‐fluorothieno [3,4‐b] thiophene‐2‐carboxylate] (PTB7‐Th) was used as the donor, and [6,6]‐Phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as the acceptor, on which a 3 nm transparent Pt film was deposited as electrode.
Figure 1b illustrates the formulas of donor and acceptor molecules.
b) The molecular structure of the donor (PTB7‐Th) and acceptor (PC71BM) of the bulk heterostructure.
During the optical gating process, the thin film of active organic materials absorbed photons to generate excitons, which included a tightly bound electron–hole pair.29 Then excitons were separated to form electrons and holes when excitons migrated at the interface of the donor and the acceptor, and the electrons were transferred to the cobalt before being gathered, as illustrated in Figure 1a.
d) Schematic diagram of photoinduced electrons transfer route and a simplified energy‐level diagram illustrating the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies of donor and acceptor.
All efficient organic solar cells consist of at least two semiconducting components with distinctly different electronic structures: a donor with low ionization energy and an acceptor with high electron affinity.
When these components are coated from a common solution, upon drying, they form an interpenetrating, partially phase-separated network, comprising donor- and acceptor rich domains.
It has been shown that the presence of the acceptor often affects the order and orientation of the polymer chains12.
In some particular cases, the acceptor has been shown to completely suppress the crystallization of the polymer component in as-prepared blends34, despite the fact that layers of the pure polymer may exhibit crystalline regions.
PCBM (phenyl-C 71 -butyric acid methyl ester) (Solenne BV) was mixed with the donor polymer in a 1:3 wt.
ratio (donor:acceptor).
First of all, the thermodynamic stabilities of polysulfides (PSs) are altered by the charge density and polarizability of the positive counterions, and the donor number (DN) of the electrolyte solvent further modifies the stability of different PSs.
In addition, we also considered full dyes based on the results of model dyes and investigated the different strength of acceptor abilities on stability and electron injection ability.
For this, we have considered the dyes with different lengths such as An, A-An, π-A-An, and D-π-A-An, where D, π, A and An are a donor, π-bridge, acceptor and anchoring group, respectively.
Based on our previous studies14, 17, we have designed a model dye which consists of 4-methoxy-N-(4-methoxyphenyl)-N-phenyl benzene amine (MPBA) as a donor, thiophene (T) as π-bridge, thienopyrazine (TP) as acceptor and COOH as an anchoring group.
Further, the peak shape in the conduction band is significantly changed after the introduction of acceptor moiety along with anchoring group.
These above results indicate that the introduction of acceptor group is significant than the π-bridge and/or donor group.
Hence, we assume that the model dye consisting of only acceptor and anchoring group (A-An) is sufficient to represent the real picture of the interactions of whole dye with the TiO2 surface.
To determine the suitable adsorption configurations, we have designed the model dyes consisting of only acceptor (TP) and anchoring group (COOH) moieties based on the above results.
Figure 6, S3–S5 clearly show that the electrons are localized in acceptor and anchoring moieties for A2, A3, B2, and B3 configurations.
In our earlier studies16, 17, 57, we found that the strength of acceptor moieties affects the optoelectronic properties, therefore here we aimed to explore the effect of the different withdrawing ability of acceptor moieties on the electron injection process.
For this, we designed dyes with three different strength of acceptors such as dicyanomethylidene-cyclopentadithiophene (CDM), cyclopentadithiophene (CDT), and thienopyrazine (TP) along with MPBA as a donor, thiophene as π-bridge, and COOH (with and without cyano) as an anchoring group.
The calculated adsorption energy values for both model and full dyes indicate that, even though the different acceptors substituted, the calculated adsorption energy values for full dyes are analogous to that of our model dyes, which validate our above model dyes calculations.
As can be seen from DOS, the withdrawing ability of different acceptor moieties influenced the band gap.
We found that the strongest acceptor (CDM) has a minimum gap and weakest acceptor CDT has a maximum gap.
Also, the substitution of different acceptors does not have a significant influence on the electronic coupling between dyes and surfaces.
However, the strength of electron withdrawing ability of acceptors plays an important role in improving the optoelectronic properties of the dyes14, 17.
Further, to study the effect of different acceptors on the electron injection ability, we plotted the PDOS for different acceptors substituted full dyes.
10, the electrons are mainly localized in acceptor moiety rather than the anchoring group, which leads to dropping in electron injection to the surface.
This is in agreement with our earlier findings17, that LUMO of the dye with the strongest acceptor (CDM) localized mainly on the acceptor moiety, not in the anchoring group.
In the case of other two acceptors, (TP and CDT) we found the noticeable coupling between anchoring group and surface atoms for all the three bands.
Further, the LUMO of the dye with the strongest acceptor (CDM) is lower than the conduction band of TiO2, which reduces the electron injection ability.
Hence, the strength of the acceptor moiety is important in the dye sensitizer; it should not be either too strong or too weak in order to be an efficient dye.Figure 9(a) Total density of states (black line) of dye with surface and that projected on dye molecules (red line), (b) Total density of states (black line) of dye and that projected on acceptor (Blue line) and COOH (red line) groups after the adsorption and (c) Total density of states (black line) of dye and that projected on acceptor (Blue line) and COOH (red line) groups before the adsorption of different acceptor substituted dyes on TiO2 surface.
(a) Total density of states (black line) of dye with surface and that projected on dye molecules (red line), (b) Total density of states (black line) of dye and that projected on acceptor (Blue line) and COOH (red line) groups after the adsorption and (c) Total density of states (black line) of dye and that projected on acceptor (Blue line) and COOH (red line) groups before the adsorption of different acceptor substituted dyes on TiO2 surface.
All-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs) based on polymerized small molecular acceptors (PSMAs) have made significant progress recently.
Here, we synthesize two A-DA’D-A small molecule acceptor based PSMAs of PS-Se with benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole A’-core and PN-Se with benzotriazole A’-core, for the studies of the effect of molecular structure on the photovoltaic performance of the PSMAs.
The two PSMAs possess broad absorption with PN-Se showing more red-shifted absorption than PS-Se and suitable electronic energy levels for the application as polymer acceptors in the all-PSCs with PBDB-T as polymer donor.
Cryogenic transmission electron microscopy visualizes the aggregation behavior of the PBDB-T donor and the PSMA in their solutions.
The desirable morphology of the PBDB-T:PN-Se active layer leads its all-PSC showing higher power conversion efficiency of 16.16%.Through development of non-fullerene acceptors, OPVs have reached efficiencies of 18%, yet the inadequate operational lifetime still poses a challenge for the commercialisation.
All-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs), based on the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) active layers composed of a p-type conjugated polymer donor and an n-type conjugated polymer acceptor, have attracted growing attentions due to their advantages of good mechanical properties, photostability, and thermal stability compared with small molecule acceptor (SMA)-based organic solar cells1–5.
Recently, benefitted from the concept of polymerized small molecule acceptors (PSMAs)6,7, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of the all-PSCs based on PSMA increases rapidly8–10, which has reached the threshold for commercialization and some specific applications like wearable and flexible devices11,12.
To establish high-performance all-PSCs, highly efficient polymer acceptor materials and the proper morphology of photoactive films are indispensable.
In the development of polymer acceptors, an important breakthrough is the design strategy of PSMAs proposed by our group in 20176, which is composed of a narrow bandgap SMA as main building block polymerized with a π-bridge linking unit.
Then, by using PM6 as the polymer donor, the PCE of the PZ1-based all-PSCs reached 11.2%13.
Thus, the selection of the small molecule acceptor building blocks plays a significant role in the photovoltaic properties of the PSMAs.
Moreover, a well-formed morphology of the all-polymer active layer with bicontinuous-interpenetrating network of polymer donor/polymer acceptor is essential to efficient exciton dissociation and charge carrier transport.
In the PSCs based on small molecule acceptors, the strategies widely adopted for adjusting morphology involve addition of solvent additive, treatments of solvent annealing and thermal annealing, and processing with hot spin coating, etc19–21.
However, compared with the blend films based on polymer donors and SMAs, most of the above-mentioned methods for morphological control are not particularly effective in the all-PSCs, because both the polymer donor and polymer acceptor possess long molecular skeleton and stronger intermolecular interaction22, which often leads to preaggregation of the polymers in precursor blend solutions and becomes less sensitive to post-treatments of the polymer films.
Since intensive researches have revealed the interplay between the molecular structures and the blend film morphologies of the polymer donor and SMAs25,26, therefore the proper selection of SMA building blocks is critical in the design of PSMAs for modulating its electronic properties and adjusting its aggregation morphology.
As mentioned above, the BN unit in PN-Se has one more alkyl side chain compared with the BS unit in PS-Se, which could affect the molecular packing of the corresponding polymer acceptors and the morphology of the blend film of the polymer acceptors with polymer donor.
In the all-PSCs, the preaggregated microstructure of the polymer donor and polymer acceptor in their blend precursor solution is generally considered to dominate the active layer film morphology30–32.
Here, for the first time, we measured the morphology of the polymer micro-aggregates in the rapidly frozen blend precursor solutions of polymer donor and PSMAs by the Cryo-TEM.
In addition, photo-induced force microscopy (PiFM)35 was employed to characterize the morphology of the polymer blend films and to distinguish the phase region of the donor and acceptor polymers.
Based on these measurements, we found that the PSMA PN-Se polymer acceptor exhibited more suitable phase separation and red-shifted absorption.
The all-PSC based on PN-Se as polymer acceptor and PBDB-T36 as polymer donor demonstrated a high PCE of 16.16% with a Voc of 0.907 V, Jsc of 24.82 mA cm−2, and FF of 0.718, while the PS-Se-based all-PSC showed a moderate PCE of 13.83% with a Voc of 0.874 V, Jsc of 23.27 mA cm−2, and fill factor (FF) of 0.680.
1Molecular structures and physicochemical properties of PS-Se and PN-Se.a Chemical structures of PS-Se and PN-Se acceptors.
c Plots of calculated aggregate content (molar %) of the two polymer acceptors in chlorobenzene at different temperatures.
a Chemical structures of PS-Se and PN-Se acceptors.
c Plots of calculated aggregate content (molar %) of the two polymer acceptors in chlorobenzene at different temperatures.
In order to reduce the influence of the molecular weights of the polymer acceptors on their physicochemical and photovoltaic properties, two batches of PS-Se and PN-Se were selected with comparable number-average molecular weights (Mn) measured by gel permeation chromatography (GPC), as shown in Supplementary Fig 19.
The electronic energy levels and other physicochemical properties of the polymer acceptors are listed in Supplementary Table 1 for a clear comparison.
After the rapid freezing of the polymer donor/polymer acceptor blend precursor solutions, the preaggregation state dispersed in the solution could be visualized and characterized by high-resolution TEM.
As mentioned above, the morphology of the polymer donor/polymer acceptor blend films is mainly controlled by the preaggregation state in their solutions.
In this work, PBDB-T was used as the polymer donor, and the concentration of 14 mg mL−1 for the total polymer donor and acceptor was adopted in the all-polymer blend solutions (see sample preparation details in “Method” section).
The corresponding surface energy of the polymer donor (γd) and acceptors (γa) (Supplementary Table 2) could assess the miscibility between the donor and acceptor, according to the equation \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\chi }_{{{{{{\rm{da}}}}}}}=K{\left(\sqrt{{\gamma }_{d}}-\sqrt{{\gamma }_{{{{{{\rm{a}}}}}}}}\right)}^{2}$$\end{document}χda=Kγd−γa2, where K is a constant42.
Combining the response of photo-induced polarizability of polymer donor or polymer acceptor in the near field and AFM technology, PiFM is capable of distinguishing the donor and acceptor at nanometer scale and providing a thorough and direct compositional analysis of the all-polymer BHJ films35,44.
Here, the IR absorption wavenumber of 1653 cm−1 was chosen as the characteristic peak of donor PBDB-T component and 1538 cm−1 as the characteristic peak of acceptor PS-Se or PN-Se component.
4a(iv), the blend film exhibits an unique BHJ bicontinuous-interpenetrating network of polymer donor/polymer acceptor with PN-Se polymer acceptor surrounding the PBDB-T polymer donor region.
4b(iv)) shows bigger donor domain (green color) and acceptor domain (red color) with the oversized phase separation over 30 nm of PBDB-T and PS-Se, which is consistent with the stronger aggregation of PS-Se confirmed from the variable-temperature UV-vis absorption and the Cryo-TEM analysis mentioned above.
PS-Se and PN-Se neat films display clear (010) peaks in out-of-plane (OOP) direction and (100) peak in in-plane (IP) direction, suggesting that both acceptors contain preferred face-on orientations.
To better understand the differences between PBDB-T:PS-Se and PBDB-T:PN-Se, the molecular packing and CCLs of the individual donor and acceptor in the blends were investigated by deconvoluting the (010) and (100) peaks to its individual donor and acceptor components.
For the donor PBDB-T, the CCL value of the (010) peak in the PBDB-T:PS-Se blend film is 28.6 Å, which is slightly larger than 27.3 Å in the PBDB-T:PN-Se blend film.
On the other hand, for the polymer acceptor, both PBDB-T:PS-Se and PBDB-T:PN-Se blend films show similar (100) peak at q = 0.28 Å−1 (d(100) = 22.4 Å CCL = 31.4 Å) and (010) peak at q = 1.65 Å−1 (d(010) = 3.81 Å CCL = 11.6 Å), indicating that there is no much difference of the π–π stacking distances and the coherences across the films between the two polymer blend active layers.
However, the integrated intensity (normalized to the thickness (Volume) and the background) of the π–π stacking (010) peak and lamellar stacking (100) peak are marginally higher for both the acceptor and the donor components of the PBDB-T:PN-Se blend, suggesting a favorably oriented and more ordered arrangement of the PN-Se and PBDB-T grains for its better charge transport properties.
Additionally, the corresponding g-parameters50 were calculated for PBDB-T:PS-Se (g = 14.3 for donor and g = 22.8 for acceptor) and PBDB-T:PN-Se (g = 14.6 for donor and 22.8 for acceptor), indicating the material is amorphous in the π–π stacking direction of the polymers51.
In this case, the ordered arrangement of the aggregates and presence of interconnected morphology such as better bicontinuous-interpenetrating polymer donor/polymer acceptor networks are more important for charge separation and transportation.Fig.
52D-GIWAXS scattering patterns.2D-GIWAXS scattering patterns of PS-Se and PN-Se neat films (a, b), and their blend films (c, d) with polymer donor PBDB-T.
2D-GIWAXS scattering patterns of PS-Se and PN-Se neat films (a, b), and their blend films (c, d) with polymer donor PBDB-T.
The photovoltaic performance of the PSMA polymer acceptors were studied by fabricating the all-PSCs with the conventional device structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PBDB-T:PSMA/PDINN52/Ag.
The donor to acceptor weight ratios were fixed at the optimized weight ratio of 1.5:1, and the current density–voltage (J–V) curves of the all-PSCs were measured under the illumination of AM1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2.
In comparison with the PS-Se-based device, the accountable reasons for the higher PCE of the PN-Se-based all-PSC are the further increased Voc benefited from the higher lying LUMO energy level of the PN-Se polymer acceptor, the enhanced Jsc resulted from the red-shifted absorption and higher absorption coefficient of PN-Se, and the better FF benefitted from the well-formed blend morphology of the PBDB-T:PN-Se blend active layer.
In addition, Supplementary Table 7 lists the molecular weights of PS-Se and PN-Se and the PCEs of the all-PSCs with PBDB-T polymer donor and the PSMA polymer acceptors with different molecular weights.
It can be seen that for the different batches of PSMA acceptors in the molecular weight range of 8–12 kDa, all the PN-Se-based all-PSCs show higher PCE than that of the PS-Se-based devices.Fig.
Pump wavelength was set to 850 nm to selectively excite the polymer acceptors in the blend films.
Photoexcitation of the acceptor leads to the formation of PS-Se excitons in the film, a broad ground state bleach (GSB) peak at 825 nm was observed that matches the absorption spectrum of PS-Se.
Additional GSB was also apparent at 637 nm, which is attributed to the donor PBDB-T, resulted from the ultrafast hole transfer from PS-Se to PBDB-T directly at the D/A interface.
The analysis from Variable-temperature UV-vis absorption and Flory-Huggins interaction parameters (χda) indicate that the PN-Se shows suitable aggregation and better miscibility with PBDB-T polymer donor, compared to PS-Se, leading to the desirable phase separation in the polymer blend film.
More importantly, the Cryo-TEM images of the frozen polymer blend solutions confirm the ideal polymer donor/polymer acceptor interpenetrating networks with phase separation size of ca.
The results of PiFM analysis further clearly reveal that the PBDB-T:PN-Se blend exhibits distinct bicontinuous-interpenetrating polymer donor/polymer acceptor networks, which improves the exciton dissociation and charge transportation in the all-PSC.
This work not only realizes a highly efficient all-PSC based on a high-performance polymer acceptor PN-Se, but also provides a clear understanding of the relationship among the molecular structure, nanoscale morphology, photophysical properties, and photovoltaic performance, which could provide insights for the future molecular design of PSMAs and device optimization of the all-PSCs.
Polymer donor PBDB-T was purchased from Solarmer Materials Inc., and TPBS-Br was purchased from Hyper Inc.
The synthetic routes of the conjugated polymer acceptors PS-Se and PN-Se are shown in Fig. 2.
The detailed synthetic procedures and characterizations of the chemical structures of the other monomers and the polymer acceptors are described in the Supplementary method section.
(At this time, the morphology of the polymer donor and PSMA had been frozen.)
The PBDB-T:polymer acceptors (1.5:1, w/w) were dissolved in chloroform (the total concentration of blend solutions was 14 mg mL−1 for all blends), with the addition of 1.5 vol % 1-chloronaphthalene (CN) as additive, and stirred overnight in a nitrogen-filled glove box.
Pump wavelength was set to 850 nm to selectively excite the polymer acceptors.
Highly efficient indoor organic photovoltaics (IOPVs) can be realized through designing efficient donor and acceptor absorber materials that have good spectral responses in the visible region and better energy‐aligned interfacial layers, and through modulation of optical properties.
[ 12 ,  22 ,  23 ,  24 ,  25 ,  26 ,  27 ,  28 ] The ultimate IOPVs can be realized through designing efficient donor and acceptor absorber materials, better energy aligned interfacial layers and through modulation of optical properties.
reported record efficiencies of 28.11 % (290 lux) and 30.89 % (1650 lux) under LED illuminations (3000 K) for nonfullerene acceptor based OPVs.
The photo absorber layer of OPVs consist of donor and acceptor materials which are blended together to form a bulk heterojunction (BHJ).
[52]  Owing to high electronegativity and electron mobility, PCBM have been widely used as electron acceptor and become a standard acceptor material in OPV devices.
The enormous efforts have been devoted to design and develop polymer or small molecular donor materials to ensure a good compatibility with PCBM acceptor materials in terms of the absorbance spectra and molecular energy levels alignment.
The prime focus of the researchers was to develop low bandgap donor materials to cover the maximum solar spectrum for high efficiency OPVs.
However, the limited control of tunability of optoelectronic properties and large energy losses of fullerene‐based acceptors can only translate a maximum PCEs around 12 %.
[53]  A new era of OPVs started when researchers developed efficient nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs).
An innovative nonfullerene acceptor molecule ITIC with PBDB−T polymer donor set a new landmark for OPVs with a remarkable improvement in PCEs.
Most recently, a new class of NFAs Y6 and its derivatives have demonstrated remarkable PCEs of 15 to 18 % with suitable donor materials due to broad absorption spectra and reduced energy losses.
Previously, most of the efforts were devoted for the development of low bandgap donor materials for outdoor light harvesting and not many attentions were given for indoor light harvesting.
One basic limiting factor that hinder the device performance of OPVs under low‐light illuminations was the higher energy losses of fullerene‐based acceptors.
Although many medium‐ to high‐bandgap donor materials incorporating with PCBM to fabricate BHJ have been reported, the majority of them have V OC values less than 0.80 V under standard illumination, which further reduce to lower V OC through extra energy losses under low‐illumination conditions.
[ 14 ,  38 ,  57 ,  58 ,  59 ] However, the emergence of NFAs that have demonstrated low energy losses with suitable donor materials has broadened the choice of acceptor materials for both indoor and outdoor photovoltaic applications.
Nowadays, photoactive materials for OPVs can be classified in five major categories such as polymer donor, polymer acceptor, fullerene acceptor, small molecule donor and small molecule acceptor.
Figures 3 and 4 show the chemical structures of some donor and acceptor materials utilized in high‐performance IOPVs.
In last few years, medium bandgap polymer/small molecule donors with fullerene‐based acceptors reported IOPVs having PCEs of 8–28 % under indoor light illumination conditions.
[60]  The high performance of P3HT with ICBA compared to PC60BM acceptor material is due to better energy alignment.
The higher energy offsets between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of P3HT donor and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of ICBA acceptor results in higher V OC compared to PC60BM acceptor, resulting in higher PCEs.
Similarly, another excellent donor polymer PBDTTT‐EFT (PCE10) that have relatively broader absorption range compare to P3HT can produce PCE of 13.20 % under 500 lux LED lamp with blend of PC70BM acceptor.
demonstrated IOPVs with PCDTBT and PTB7 donor polymers blend with fullerene‐based acceptor materials for comparison under low‐light illuminations using fluorescent lamp.
design and synthesis a series of donor polymer materials namely WF3, WF3S and WF3F.
Among these donor materials, WF3F can effectively minimize the bimolecular recombination with reduced series resistance, increased shunt resistance and better film morphology.
Another class of OPV is based on small‐molecule donor materials and fullerene‐based acceptors.
A small‐molecule donor BTR, which is based on a benzodithiophene (BDT) core and a rhodamine end group connected by terthiophene units, where BDT core has a thiophene side chain with attached 2‐ethylhexyl and hexyl groups.
Furthermore, BTR small‐molecule donor with bandgap of 1.80 eV, high EQE and V OC is suitable for efficient indoor light harvesting.
A PCE of 28.1 % was reported for BTR:PC71BM OPVs under indoor illumination conditions, which is the highest PCE for IOPVs with fullerene‐based acceptor materials.
Chemical structures of donor materials applied in high‐performance indoor organic photovoltaics.
Chemical structures of acceptor materials applied in high‐performance indoor organic photovoltaics.
Nonfullerene acceptor‐based indoor organic photovoltaics
Although, the fullerene‐based acceptor materials have good compatibility with LED and FL sources emission spectra due to absorption in UV‐visible region but relatively deeper LUMO energy level cause larger energy losses resulting in low V OC and weak absorbance in visible region leading to low current densities.
Consequently, nonfullerene acceptors materials including polymer and small molecule acceptor materials explored due to their easy synthesis and bandgap tunability.
[64]  The polymer donors PBDB‐TS, PBDB‐TS‐3Cl and PBDB‐TS‐4Cl were blend with IT‐4F NFA to fabricate photo absorber layer.
studied the PBDB‐TF donor and IT−M NFA for IOPVs to investigated the effect of the introduced external resistance and active layer thickness on device performance of the IOPVs and obtained PCE of 22.8 % under 500 lux LED lamp.
reported a medium bandgap donor polymer namely CD1 with PBN‐10 NFA to construct all‐polymer OPVs and for comparison utilize the well‐studied ITIC small molecule NFA.
[15]  Owing to better energy level alignment of donor and acceptor polymers and excellent spectral response to the indoor lighting sources, CD1:PBN‐10 BHJ demonstrated PCEs of 21.7 and 26.2 % under LED and FL light sources at 1000 lux with high V OC of 1.14 V. Till dated, this is the highest reported V OC under low light illuminations.
On the other hand, the large LUMO offset between CD1 donor polymer and ITIC small molecule acceptor resulted in relatively lower V OC.
They demonstrated IOPVs by utilizing a low bandgap Y6‐O and medium bandgap FTTB‐PDI4 acceptor with PM6 and P3TEA medium bandgap donor materials.
Interestingly, with PDI‐NO interlayer, low bandgap acceptor Y6‐O in PM6:Y6‐O BHJ blend demonstrated a PCE of 30.89 %, whereas medium bandgap P3TEA:FTT‐PDI4 BHJ system gave a PCE of 26.67 % under 3000 K LED illumination (1650 lux).
investigated several donor polymers as the ternary components to establish a ternary strategy to enhance the device performance of binary PCDTBT:PC71BM BHJ system under 1 sun as well as low light indoor illumination.
adopted the ring‐fusion strategy to design and synthesis the new acceptor materials which can effectively tuned the optoelectronic and structural properties of conjugated materials.
HOMO level of donor and LUMO level of acceptor should be well aligned with the work function (WF) of anode and cathode, respectively.
Besides, the suitable interfacial layer is also sought to improve carrier extraction selectivity by controlling the Fermi level to either E F,h of the donor for the hole and the E F,e of the acceptor for electron collection (Figure 5a).
Unwanted carrier recombination can happen at the electrode lowering the device performance as BHJ layer mixed from both donor and acceptor are in direct interaction with the electrodes.
[46]  These interfacial layers reduced the WF of Al, thus the Ohmic contact with the LUMO acceptors can be achieved by increasing built‐in‐field in the device.
Comparison of VOC under 1 sun illumination and under low light illumination of various BHJ absorber layers: (a) fullerene‐based acceptor materials; (b) nonfullerene‐based acceptor materials; (c) ternary IOPV materials.
Similarly, they also reported an outstanding flexible mini‐module (active area: 9.6 cm2) with 1DTP‐ID small molecule donor and PNP acceptor materials and obtained a PCE of approximately 17 % generating P max of 95.4 μW under 2900 K LED illumination at 200 lux.
demonstrated the NFAs based OPV module with absorber layer containing TPD‐3F donor and IT‐4F acceptor materials.
investigated the low light IOPVs device performance of commercially feasible inverted device architecture, employing all solution processed R2R fabrication technique and relatively low‐cost polymer (P3HT) donor and NFA (O‐IDTBR) acceptor as active layer materials.
Two clear strategies for avoiding light soaking was demonstrated that overcome this poor charge extraction: replacing the ZnO ETL with SnO2 nanoparticles or by employing an acceptor with a sufficiently shallow LUMO level to avoid any electron extraction barrier.
Most of the donor and acceptor materials are sensitive to light and oxygen, the photo‐oxidation process of the photoactive materials can cause rapid degradation of device performance with the formation of superoxide radical ions, which are found to be the major degradation pathway and strongly influenced by the LUMO energy level of the acceptor materials.
This degradation mechanism is both applicable for fullerene and nonfullerene based BHJ and can be avoided to some extent by designing the acceptor materials with sufficient electron affinities.
In another report, they also demonstrated the operational device stability of PBDB‐TF donor with PC71BM, ITCC and IT‐4F acceptor materials under continuous strong and weak light illumination with varied temperature conditions (Figure 10c).
The donor and acceptor materials utilized for IOPVs are good absorber in the visible region which appears to be dark in color and the presence of such dark objects for indoor application could affect the visual senses of human beings.
[116]  A common strategy for high‐performance semitransparent OPVs under 1 sun condition is that the OPV device with thin photo‐absorber layer is fabricated for reasonable transparency in the visible region and for the compensation of energy loss due to the transmission of visible photons, a NIR absorbing acceptor material is utilized in BHJ as shown in Figure 12a.
The majority of efficient IOPV donor/acceptor materials will appears dark, even with transparent electrodes, owing to their strong absorbance in the visible region.
Yin and co‐workers proposed that porphyrin‐based donor materials can be promising candidate for efficient semitransparent IOPVs.
Porphyrin‐ based donors materials have unique absorption profile that have high transmission in the visible region of the most human visual sensitivity and stronger absorption at the blue‐/red‐ends for photovoltaic effect (Figure 12b).
The PCEs vs AVT of BHJ film comparison of commonly used donor materials for IOPVs and a special class of porphyrin‐based donor materials for semitransparent IOPVs is shown in Figure 8c.
(c) Device performance vs. average transmittance of selected typical polymer:acceptor‐ (blue) and porphyrin:fullerene (red)‐based photovoltaics.
The ultimate IOPVs can be realized by designing efficient donor and acceptor absorber materials with good spectral response in the visible region and better energy‐aligned interfacial layers, and through modulation of optical properties.
The energy level alignments at donor/acceptor interfaces in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) play a decisive role in device performance.
Here, the frontier ortbial line-ups at the donor/acceptor interface in high performance polymer OPVs, PTB7/PC71BM, were investigated using in situ UPS, XPS and IPES.
In OPVs, photogenerated excitons are dissociated by the photovoltaic energy gap (EPVG), which is a potential difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of a donor (HOMOdonor) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level of an acceptor (LUMOacceptor), and then the charges are drifted by the built-in potential induced from the work function difference between electrodes.
Due to such limitations, the true electronic structure and its evolution at the polymer donor/acceptor “interface” have not been shown.
In BHJ OPVs, poly(4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl] thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-4,6-diyl) (PTB7) is a promising donor material recording the remarkable PCE because of its superior optoelectronic properties2526.
Finally, the PTB7/PC71BM interface was compared with a poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT)/[6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) interface, which is a former popular donor/acceptor junction.
The donor/acceptor junction was prepared on PEDOT:PSS since the most widely used OPV structure is ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Active layer/Cathode272829.
reported that BHJ films show phase separation and form microscopic junctions of donor and acceptor303132.
We measured the interface between PEDOT:PSS and P3HT as a non-push-pull donor counterpart.
Another important interface in BHJ is the donor/acceptor interface, PTB7/PC71BM and P3HT/PC61BM, and we continued PC71BM and PC61BM deposition on the final PTB7 and P3HT layers explained in section A, respectively.
Therefore, the interfacial electronic structure is more important than the Eexc of the bulk donor for efficient exciton dissociation.
9ab, the hole extraction barriers from donor to PEDOT:PSS are 0.45 eV for PTB7 and 0.35 eV for P3HT.
The EPVG of PTB7/PC71BM and P3HT/PC61BM is evaluated as energetic difference between HOMOdonor and LUMOacceptor thus 1.10 eV (0.80 + 0.30 eV) and 0.90 eV (0.82 + 0.08 eV) for P3HT/PC61BM, respectively.
It is reported that ΔGCS acts as the driving force to dissociate the exciton at the donor/acceptor interfaces16.
Until now, ΔGCS was estimated from the IEDonor and EAacceptor measured from individual film without any consideration of electronic polarization (solid state effect) at the donor-acceptor interface.
reported that an ideal value of ΔGCS and the optical band gap of the donor is about 0.4 eV and 1.6 eV, respectively16.
All these factors are determined from the interfacial electronic structure of donor and acceptor materials.
Therefore, we suggest the strategy for the high performance OPVs: (1) proper combination of donor and acceptor materials should be chosen based on their charge neutrality levels.
In addition, the EPVG between a donor and an acceptor (1.10 eV for PTB7/PC71BM and 0.90 eV for P3HT/PC61BM) were also measured.
The observed properties render these compounds suitable candidates for donor materials in organic heterojunction solar cells.
It can be speculated that several synergetic effects contribute substantially to the V OC increase, like stronger stabilization of the chromophore in the excited state by the TFSI anion and a HOMO energy level shift of the chromophore in the solid state toward a larger donor–acceptor energy gap.
The materials have good optical properties and exhibit an appropriate energy level to the acceptor material and hole transport layer for application in OPV devices.
Evaporation of MoO3 (99.97%) as the hole transport layer and C60 (99.5%) electron acceptor as well as tris(8‐hydroxyquinolinato)aluminum (99.99%) diffusion blocking layer and silver (99.99%) as the top electrode were performed in a glovebox using vapor deposition techniques.
Here, we first establish a database containing over 1700 donor materials reported in the literature.
The reliability of our approach is further verified by screening 10 newly designed donor materials.
Thus, the OPV development is inefficient and slow, e.g., only less than 2000 OPV donor molecules have been synthesized and tested in a photovoltaic cell since the first report in 1973 (3).
In this work, we established a database containing 1719 experimentally tested OPV donor materials collected from the literature.
Last, we independently verified the ML models by synthesizing 10 new OPV donor materials [9 of them have not been reported before, and the remaining one was reported very recently (22)].
The database contains 1719 realistic OPV donor materials collected from the literature.
Whether the acceptor is a fullerene or a nonfullerene was also ignored.
If a certain donor material has been reported several times, the highest PCE is chosen.
Information about our database of OPV donor materials.
All the machine description language of molecules considered in this work is easily accessible, allowing for the rapid screening of a large number of donor materials.
Importance of programming language expressions for donor materials in modeling
Although an RF model can obtain an average accuracy of 74.90%, we cannot conclude that the PubChem fingerprints are suitable as an expression of a molecule for screening OPV donor materials.
Screening for high PCE donor material via ML
To efficiently predict the PCE of donor materials, four ML methods are used, and their performance for different machine language expressions are summarized in Fig.
(C) J-V curve of the solar cell with the active layer using the predicted donor material.
(D) Prediction results versus experimental data for the predicted donor materials with the RF algorithm and Daylight fingerprints.
To further verify the reliability of our ML models, we designed 10 new small molecular donor materials (D1 to D10, whose chemical structures are available in fig.
Originating from the well-studied A-π-D-π-A structure and the highly efficient BTR molecule developed by us (47), these 10 donor materials can be divided into three groups with variations in the A (end group), π (link), D (core), and side-chain groups.
Donors D1, D2, D6, and D9 have the same π-D-π structure but different A moieties, while donors D3, D4, and D5 have chlorination or alkyl chain modification on the D part.
In donors D7, D8, and D10, the π links were modified.
D3 and D7 used IDIC or Y3 as acceptors, respectively, while the other eight donors used PC71BM as acceptors.
The donor:acceptor blend film is sandwiched in between a poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS)–coated indium tin oxide (ITO) transparent anode and a [2-(1,10-phenanthrolin-3-yl)naphth-6-yl]diphenylphosphine oxide (DPO) electron transport layer.
In summary, on the basis of a database containing realistic donor materials collected from the literature, various programming language expressions of donor molecules including images, ASCII strings, descriptors, and molecular fingerprints are used to build ML models to predict the corresponding OPV PCE class.
The molecular fingerprints with lengths above 1000 bits provide the best programming language expressions of donor molecules due to their distinctness and ease of accessibility.
We have developed a scheme to help OPV donor material design by combing ML approaches and experimental analysis.
That is, a large number of donor materials could be screened through a preevaluation and classification by our ML model, and then the identified leading candidates will be synthesized and further tested by experiment.
Our study on the relationship between the chemical structure of molecule and PCE of the molecule-based OPV could speed up new donor material design and hence accelerate the development of high PCE OPVs.
The photovoltaic active layer of small molecule organic solar cells is composed of a blend of small organic molecule electron donors and fullerene electron acceptors.
It has the advantages of being light weight, with a simple preparation process and can be processed into large-area flexible devices, and has attracted great attention from academia and industry.1–3 In the past ten years, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of small molecule organic solar cells has been greatly improved, and has exceeded 10%.4 The substantial increase in power conversion efficiency not only comes from the understanding of the device principle and the optimization of the device structure, but more importantly, the development of many high-performance organic small molecule electron donors and fullerene derivative electron acceptors.5–7
At present, structural adjustment and performance improvement of organic small molecule electron donor materials is an important direction to improve the PCE of solar cells.8–10 Excellent performance of organic small molecule electron donor should have the following characteristics: broad spectrum and strong absorption in the visible light region, high hole mobility, electrochemical energy level matching with the acceptor material, high purity, good solubility, film-forming performance, and thermal stability, and no reaction with active metal electrode materials.
Because the method of alternately combining donor and acceptor can reduce the band gap, broaden the spectrum and adjust the electrochemical energy level, the donor–acceptor coupling is an effective way to prepare high-efficiency organic small molecule photovoltaic materials.11–14 The strong electron-deficient unit diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as a classic acceptor unit has been widely used in high-efficiency organic photovoltaic materials.15,16 For example, DPP is coupled with benzodithiophene (BDT), and the obtained organic small molecule BDT-2DPP shows excellent photovoltaic performance.17 To be fact, BDF has a similar fused aromatic structure with BDT using furan ring replacing thiophene unit.
BDF is used as an electron donor unit in polymer solar cells, and it has obtained good photovoltaic performance.
Based on the above considerations, in this article, we used benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]difuran (BDF) as donor core, synthesized a DPP-based small molecule B1.
Using B1 as the electron donor and PC61BM as the electron acceptor, after the photovoltaic active layer was thermally annealed at 120 °C, and obtained the PCE was 5.0% under AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm−2.
These results indicate that B1 is a potential solar cell donor material.
While the absorption region of 500–750 nm, it is due to the absorption of charge transfer between the DPP acceptor unit and the BDF donor unit.
Due to the absorption of incident photons with energies larger than band-gaps of the material of active layer, the electrons of HOMO of donor will be excited up to LUMO leaving a positive charge on the HOMO.
If the LUMO level of acceptor is lower than the LUMO level of donor, the excited electrons will be transferred to acceptor resulting in a charge separation of the electron–hole pair.
The difference between LUMO levels of donor and acceptor of roughly 0.3 eV is expected to yield optimum charge separation and recombination prevention.22
Square wave voltammetry of B1 and acceptor material PC61BM.
The potential difference between the peaks of LUMO of acceptor and HOMO of donor reflects the Voc of the devices assembled from the corresponding materials.
The quenching efficiency of photoluminescence (PL) upon the addition of fullerene is usually considered to reflect the possibility of exciton dissociation at donor/acceptor interface within their lifetime.24 We tested the photoluminescence based on pure B1 film, B1 : PC61BM film and B1 : PC61BM film after thermal annealing.
As B1 : PC61BM film, the electrons in the single excited state of B1 can not only emit fluorescence, but also transfer the charge to the excited state of the acceptor PC61BM, which causes the fluorescence emission of B1 to be quenched.
In summary, a new type of narrow band gap DPP-based organic electron donor B1 was synthesized by Stille coupling reaction.
These results indicate that B1 is an organic donor material for high-efficiency solar cells.
Here, a simple triphenylamine (TPA) moiety serves as the electron donor, while di-cyanoacrylamide and di-thiazolidine-5-one units serve as the electron acceptors and anchoring groups.
One of the most important types of organic dyes is the conjugated donor–acceptor (D-π-A) because of its sturdy spectral response.
The HOMO and LUMO levels of the sensitizers can be easily tuned by alternation of the donor, spacer, and acceptor moieties [22].
To increase the absorption of the metal-free organic dyes, many donor groups were introduced into structures such as triarylamine, carbazole, indole, coumarin and phenothiazine [23].
Triphenylamine units are more powerful electron donors than other substances, because of their fluorescence qualities and electron density.
To improve DSSC photovoltaic efficiency, photosensitizers are required to have bathochromic shifts by introducing donating groups (alkoxy, alkyl) and aromatic groups to TPA that increase the HOMO energy orbital level [26] or introducing different anchoring groups (CN, CO and NH) that facilitate the electron injection from the donor moiety into the photoanode and decrease charge aggregation of the dye on TiO2 [27–32].
To improve the binding strength of dyes on TiO2, the incorporation of double electron-accepting groups into the organic donor structure to generate a double-anchored compound has been suggested, which exhibited higher device efficiency than single D-π-A dyes [33–39].
We launched five new di-anchoring compounds with a triphenylamine core as an electron donor, denoted as SM1-5.
In this work, we used different and new di-anchoring structures, which were created with three-electron acceptors (cyanoacrylamide core, thiazolidine-5-one-dimolononitrile core, and thiazolidine-5-one-bis(3-oxobutanoate core)).
Using organic photosensitizers with double electron acceptors/anchoring groups led to improved current efficiency as a result of increasing the molar extinction coefficient of the chromophore and also led to improved photovoltage because of the absorption maximum amount of sensitizer on the semiconductor surface.
The power conversion efficiency in the DSSC is better than the single electron acceptor type [40, 41].
All dyes possess different absorption bands; the region with a lower wavelength (300–430 nm) is assigned to the π–π* transitions, and another region with a longer wavelength (440–560 nm) is due to intramolecular (ICT) from an arylamine donating moiety (triphenylamine) to an electron acceptor (cyanoacrylamide moiety and thiazolidine-5-one derivatives).
8, the electron distribution of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) for SM1-5 may be detected across the molecules, notably in conjugated systems, while at the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO), the distribution of the electrons for the five dyes is located over the acceptor moieties, especially on the cyanoacrylamides to SM1-3 and over the thiazolidine-5-one moiety to SM4 and SM5.
The presence of new acceptor segments in the chemical modification of SM1-5 has had a significant impact on photovoltaic parameters like open-circuit photovoltage (VOC), short-circuit photocurrent density (JSC), fill factor (FF) and overall solar light to electricity conversion efficiency (η) of the sensitized cells in the proposed investigation.
Additionally, theoretical investigations on compounds SM1-5 show that the electron density shifts significantly from the triphenylamine donor to the acceptor/anchoring group through the π-spacer.
The findings clearly imply that the thiazolidine-5-one unit connected to the malononitrile core might be an outstanding electron acceptor system for metal-free dyes in order to increase power conversion efficiency.
With the development of diversity of non-fullerene acceptors, it is found that there is no clear boundary between electron donors and electron acceptors.
In this work, we designed and synthesized three A1–D–A2–D–A1-type (A represents acceptor unit and D represents donor unit) small molecules, named as M-0F, M-1F, and M-2F, respectively containing zero, one, and two fluorine atoms in the terminal acceptor segments (A1), respectively.
The M-0F exhibited the highest efficiency of 5.99% as a donor in fullerene-containing system and the lowest efficiency of 0.58% as an acceptor in fullerene-free system.
While the M-2F performed the lowest efficiency of 0.97% as the donor and the highest efficiency of 2.65% as the acceptor.
In a typical BHJ organic photovoltaic (OPV) device, the heterojunction usually consists of a p-type electron donor and an n-type electron acceptor, which is the photoactive part for converting solar light to electricity.
The p-type electron donor can be polymers or organic small molecules.
The n-type electron acceptors include fullerene derivatives, such as [6, 6]-phenyl-C61/C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM/PC71BM) and non-fullerene electron acceptors.
For a highly-efficient BHJ OPV, its active layer should possess the following features: (a) a broad absorption spectrum with a high extinction coefficient to utilize more solar photons; (b) a suitable molecular energy level alignment between the involved molecular orbitals on donor and acceptor to offer a sufficient driving force for efficient charge separation; (c) a bicontinuous network with nanoscale phase separation to facilitate exciton diffusion and charge separation; and (d) high charge mobility to facilitate charge transport (Scharber et al., 2006; Chen and Cao, 2009; Cheng et al., 2009; Beaujuge and Frechet, 2011; Henson et al., 2012; Li, 2012; Xu and Yu, 2014; Etxebarria et al., 2015; Zhang H. et al., 2015).
Among these key features, the difference in LUMO energy of donor and acceptor is usually larger than 0.3 eV in fullerene system (Scharber and Sariciftci, 2013).
However, with the development and application of non-fullerene electron acceptors, it is found that there is no clear boundary between electron donor and electron acceptor materials, and the difference of LUMO or HOMO energies in non-fullerene system could be very small.
For instance, the polymer acceptor P-BNBP-fBT has a LUMO of −3.6 eV, and PTB7-Th donor has a LUMO level of −3.42 eV.
At present, the small molecules could be designed as donor or acceptors based on different molecular architectures.
For small molecule donors the conjugated skeleton is most often relatively planar.
For example, oligothiophene-based small molecule donor DRCN7T exhibited an impressive optimized PCE of 9.30% using PC71BM acceptor (Zhang Q. et al., 2015).
On the other hand, currently non-fullerene acceptors are mainly concentrated on fused ring acceptors (Cheng et al., 2018; Hou et al., 2018).
The acceptors based on perylene diimide (PDI) or naphthalene diimide (NDI) have shown relatively good performance in PSCs (Facchetti, 2013; Zhang et al., 2013; Hartnett et al., 2014; Li et al., 2014; Lin et al., 2014; Jung et al., 2015; Liu et al., 2015; Sun et al., 2015; Yang et al., 2016; Lei et al., 2018).
Most of the high-performance PDI and NDI-based fullerene-free acceptors have twisted backbones to decrease the planarity, self-aggregation, and crystalline domains of simple rylene diimides.
Besides the rylene-based fullerene-free electron acceptors, electron-donating extended fused rings, e.g., indacenodithiophene (IDT) and indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT), were widely used in small molecule acceptors because their LUMO levels can be readily tuned by flanking with different electron-withdrawing groups and the steric effect of tetrahexylphenyl substituents on the coplanar backbone can reduce the intermolecular interactions while weaken the stacking of donor units and promote the stacking of acceptor units (Lin et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2015; Lin and Zhan, 2016; Huang et al., 2017; Yu et al., 2017).
Another example was present by Hou et al., the steric hindrance caused by side chains could convert two isomers to donors and acceptors separately (Liu et al., 2018).
In this case, molecules with weak π-π stacking structure is more likely to work as acceptor materials.
Although recent progress showed that small molecules based on the same backbone can be changed from donor to accepters by changing the side chain hindrance, it is still unclear whether one can slightly tune the energy levels of planer small molecules and charge mobility to realize the transformation from donor to acceptor.
As donor, M-0F exhibited the highest PCE of 5.99%, M-1F performed a PCE of 2.60%, and M-2F showed the lowest PCE of 0.97% with PC71BM as acceptor.
On the other hand, as acceptor, M-0F showed the lowest PCE of 0.58%, M-1F performed medium PCE of 1.85%, and M-2F achieved the highest PCE of 2.65% with polymer PBDB-T as donor.
To investigate the photovoltaic behaviors of the three molecules as the electron donor and acceptor in OPV devices, we selected two materials, PC71BM as an acceptor (Wienk et al., 2003; Thompson and Fréchet, 2008) and PBDB-T as a donor polymer (Zhao et al., 2016) to blend with M-0F, M-1F, M-2F to fabricated conventional device structure: ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Donor:Acceptor/Ca/Al.
We comparatively studied the photovoltaic performance of M-0F, M-1F, and M-2F as donor materials.
The devices were made of blend of small molecule donor and PC71BM with chloroform as solvent by spin-coating.
It can be concluded that as an electron donor in blends with PC71BM, M-0F displays a superior photovoltaic performance compared to M-1F while M-1F has better photovoltaic performance than M-2F.
The results show that the device performance based the three molecules as donors decreases with increased number of fluorine atoms attached to the terminal acceptor units (A1).
Device performance of M-0F, M-1F, and M-2F with PC71BM as acceptors.
We also studied photovoltaic performance of M-0F, M-1F, and M-2F as electron acceptor material with PBDB-T as donor material.
The blend of small molecule acceptor and PBDB-T was made with chlorobenzene as solvent by spin-coating.
It can be concluded that, as electron acceptors after blending with PBDB-T, M-2F displays a superior photovoltaic performance compared to M-0F and M-1F.
This means, that as acceptors and donors the series of small molecules display opposite trend in device performances.
With increasing fluorination, the device performance as donor decreases while improves as acceptor.
In order to investigate the donor property of M-0F, M-1F, and M-2F, the fluorescence spectra were measured in the range of 680–900 nm with exciting wavelength at 650 nm.
For studying acceptor property of these three small molecules, the exciting wavelength at 740 nm was chosen as shown in Figure S1B.
The π-π stacking of M-1F is stronger while the hole mobility is not the highest compared with M-0F, M-2F, indicating that the performance of the donor and acceptor has been changed.
On the basis of above observations, we can conclude that M-0F has good donor property with better phase separation and higher hole mobility in fullerene system.
while M-2F has the best acceptor properties with nanofiber interpenetrating network morphology and higher electron mobility in non-fullerene system.
Our work further proves that the definition of donor and acceptor is without clear boundaries, which offer wide potential for molecular design.
Also, the boundary between donor materials and acceptor materials is worth exploring for understanding the deep mechanism of exciton dissociation and charge transfer in BHJ active layers.
difficulty in minimizing energy loss while enhancing electron injection at the dye interface.14 Thus, organic photovoltaics (OPVs), also known as bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells, have been widely accepted and highly investigated owing to their mechanical stiffness, light transparency, economical nature, color alteration, and lightweight property.2,15–19 Over the past 20 years, fullerene acceptors have gained the attention of researchers and improved the PCE to 8.3% in junction with polymeric donors.20,21 They have remained as presiding acceptors in BHJ solar cells owing to their 3-D structure, high electron affinities, and electronic delocalization in the lowest unoccupied molecular orbitals (LUMOs), hence effectively generating charge separation states with donor moieties.
Fullerene-based organic solar cells can withstand a high Voc, and this model competes with donor-accepting heteroatoms, while the trajectories of electrons and holes are in their respective phases of transport.
The two elements that control the transfer of current, the HOMO difference between acceptor and donor, and recombining strength, agreed with the experimental results and kinetic Monte Carlo simulation.
Evidence proved that the difference in HOMO levels between the acceptor and the donor was the same as the space between the donor and acceptor system.22 However, these fullerene photovoltaic devices possess some limitations: least absorption in the visible area, large band gaps, a small Voc, etc.
Recently, an emerging class of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has become a foremost part of the research on BHJ-SCs and has enabled a major breakthrough in the power conversion efficiencies of OSCs.
A few drawbacks, such as non-tunable LUMO energies and unreliable morphologies, have rendered the fullerene acceptors less efficient materials as compared to the NFAs.23 With the emergence of NF chromophores, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of OSCs have been massively growing and have achieved a value of 18%.24–27 Among the NFAs, fused-ring electron acceptors with acceptor1–donor1–acceptor2–donor2 (A1–D1–A2–D2) molecular configurations are tremendously exciting.28–33 In the literature, we found many reports in which NFAs with various configurations such as D–π–D–π–A, A–π–D–π–A, A–π–A–π–A, D–π–A, A–π–A, etc.
It is well-known that utilization of a strong electron withdrawing group on acceptor moieties at the terminal of a molecule and core with some donating units like benzothiophene, diphenylamine, naphthalene diamine etc.
They have also shown exceptional attributes contributing to promising PCEs in OSCs.34–36 Khan and co-authors reported a Z series of novel Z1–Z6 acceptor materials with fused chrysene designed using FClC.
DOS, TDM, and FMO analyses showed that end capped modification in acceptors was significant in tuning the photovoltaic properties of photovoltaic materials.37 Fullerene-free acceptor chromophores (MOL-1–MOL-4) with an A2–π–A1–π–A2 architecture containing benzothiazole core units and bridged with four different end-capped acceptors were reported to have excellent photovoltaic properties.38 All the chromophores exhibited reduced band gaps with broader absorption responses than their parent (RCAM) owing to an electron withdrawing effect of the terminal acceptor units.
Aqil and co-workers reported (BTM1–BTM5) benzothiazole based fullerene-free acceptor chromophores to enhance the efficiency of OSCs.
They designed molecules using an efficient acceptor named BTP-Cl and recently reported a 16.5% PCE.
The designed molecules were found to be much better in structural configurations and their bandgap decreased by 10 times as compared to R. Optoelectronic investigations revealed that BTM-3 and BTM-4 were superior with respect to their absorption responses.39 Herein, a series of hydrazide containing NF-based small molecular acceptors (BDTC1–BDTC7) was synthesized, and their photovoltaic responses were studied using DFT in order to use them as OSCs.
This narrow band gap might be due to the resonance effect because, in terms of resonance, the nitro group facilitates the sharing of its non-bonded electron pair charge with acceptors.
However, for the LUMO, the major portion of charge density is located over the end-capped acceptor (A2), and a minute portion of it is present over the donor 1 and acceptor 1 regions in all the synthesized compounds (BDTC1–BDTC7).
In order to perform DOS analysis of BDTC1–BDTC7, each compound is split into four respective segments: i.e., acceptor 1 (A1), donor 1 (D1), acceptor 2 (A2), and donor 2 (D2), which are represented by red, green, blue, and pink lines, accordingly.
From the DOS results, it was found that the charge contribution of donor 1 is 91.8, 88.8, 93.4, 92.5, 88.5, 37.6, and 47.0% at the HOMO and 51.1, 49.7, 49.7, 50.5, 48.1, 57.2, and 48.3% at the LUMO in BDTC1–BDTC7, respectively.
For acceptor 1, the electronic cloud contribution was 1.2, 0.3, 2.1, 1.6, 60.6, and 51.0% at the HOMO, and 0.2, 0.1, 0.6, 0.2, 0.1, and 0.4% at the LUMO for BDTC2–BDTC7, respectively.
From the above discussion, it was concluded that the maximum charge density in the HOMOs is provided by the donor while in the LUMOs the charge is mainly located over the acceptor region as already elucidated in the FMO analysis.
Overall, a massive ICT from donor to acceptor is clear from the DOS spectra, which indicates that the studied compounds are good photonic materials.
To understand the effects of the donor, bridging core, and acceptor moieties on the optical properties of the studied compounds, excited state absorption spectra were investigated in dichloromethane (DCM).
The highest bathochromic shift (448.990 nm) was seen in BDTC7 with a smaller transition energy (ΔE = 2.761 eV) because of the presence of an electron-withdrawing nitro (–NO2) unit at the end capped acceptor moiety.
It is utilized to evaluate interactions between acceptor and donor units, electronic excitation, and electron–hole pair localization.78,79 TDM analysis of the studied compounds (BDTC1–BDTC7) was performed in the first excitation state (S1) by employing the above-mentioned DFT functional.
Efficient ICT is driven from D2 towards A1 because of the excellent electron withdrawing nature of the terminal acceptor moieties.
The most prominent ICT is observed in BDTC6 and BDTC7, as both contain a nitro group as the terminal acceptor part.
This electronic charge density is diagonally shifted from donor to acceptor through the central structure in BDTC6 and BDTC7.
In the heat map of BDTC7, obvious electronic charge is shifted diagonally from the donor towards the acceptor, as indicated by the green and red spots (Fig.
This means that the strong terminal electron-withdrawing segment attracts the electronic density towards itself, hence efficient movement of electronic cloud occurs from donor to acceptor in BDTC7, acting as a charge facilitator without charge entrapping.
With the LUMO of an acceptor material, the HOMO of the donor material can be scaled.
For higher open circuit voltage levels, the LUMO of the donor materials ought to have a higher energy than the LUMO of the acceptor material.
The donor polymer molecule PBDB-T was selected for open circuit voltage measurements since all of the reference and synthesized molecules used in this investigation are acceptors by nature.
The difference in HOMO and LUMO energies between D and A molecules is directly related to the Voc.85 In the current study, we calculated the Voc values using the well-known donor polymer PBDB-T, whose simulated EHOMO value is −4.936 eV.
0.3, was derived from the resolution factors of voltage drop.66 The Voc lines up the HOMO of a well-known donor polymer, PBDB-T, with the LUMO of the acceptor of the investigated compounds (BDTC1–BDTC7).
The Voc values of BDTC1–BDTC7 with respect to the donor material PBDB-T.
The above data reveal that all the derivatives (BDTC1–BDTC7) exhibit Voc values in the range of 1.97–3.27 V. ΔE between the HOMO of the donor/LUMO of the acceptor complexes was found to be 4.478, 4.504, 4.374, 4.360, 4.546, 4.058, and 3.583 eV for BDTC1–BDTC7, respectively (Table 5).
The Voc values of BDTC1–BDTC7 with respect to the HOMOPBDB-T–LUMOacceptor difference of energy were found to be 3.27, 3.19, 3.00, 3.02, 3.25, 2.31, and 1.97 V, respectively.
The diminishing order of Voc of the designed chromophores with respect to HOMOPBDB-T–LUMOacceptor is as follows: BDTC1 (3.27 V)> BDTC5 (3.25 V) > BDTC2 (3.19 V) > BDTC4 (3.02 V) > BDTC3 (3.00 V) > BDTC6 (2.31 V) > BDTC7 (1.97 V).
Voc depends on the energy gap, and HOMO of the donor and LUMO of the acceptor.
It can be seen that the LUMO levels of the acceptor molecules (BDTC1–BDTC7) are lower than those of the donor PBDB-T polymer.
Such a molecular orbital alignment makes the electron density move more quickly from a donor polymer to an acceptor, thus improving optoelectronic performance.
With powerful electron-withdrawing acceptor units, the calculated photovoltaic characteristics such as a reduced band gap (3.583 eV), the largest λmax (448.990 nm), moderate reorganization energy (λe = 0.00, λh = −0.025 eV) and Voc (1.97 V) support the candidacy of BDTC7 as a potential OSC material.
Here, a mixed solution of methanol (MT) and isopropanol (IPA), which has a weak electron donor ability [33], low boiling point, and poor solubility with halides [34], was used to assist the preparation of Cs2PbI2Cl2/CsPbI2.5Br0.5 perovskite films.
The MT/IPA mixed solution has a weak electron donor ability, low boiling point, and poor solubility with halides, which can accelerate the evaporation of DMSO, thus facilitating uniform nucleation and growth within films.
The synthesis and characterization of four novel donor-acceptor-donor π-extended oligomers, incorporating naphtha(1–b)thiophene-4-carboxylate or benzo(b)thieno(3,2-g) benzothiophene-4-carboxylate 2-octyldodecyl esters as end-capping moieties, and two different conjugated core fragments, is reported.
Although conjugated polymers are the current choice in BHJs, due to their good film forming and mechanical properties [14,15], the use of oligomers as alternative donor materials has been developed recently [16,17,18].
We set out to investigate the possibility of using such easily obtainable π-systems in larger π-systems, with suitable optical and electronic characteristics to function as donors in OPV BHJ cells.
Naphthothiophene and benzodithiophene derivatives 1 and 2, due to their high planarity and π-conjugation, appeared as suitable end-capping units for the rapid construction of oligomers incorporating electron-withdrawing units as the central cores, thus forming donor-acceptor-donor (D-A-D) architectures with tunable energy levels for OPV applications (Figure 1).
In this paper we present the synthesis of novel D-A-D oligomers with BT and its difluoro derivative as the electron-poor π-conjugated cores, and we present data on their performance as p-type donor components of bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells.
BT units were our choice as the electron-withdrawing π-cores, in order to form donor-acceptor-donor oligomers with suitable energy levels to work efficiently as p-type materials in BHJ cells.
For example, the LUMO level of 9 is 0.5 eV higher than that (−3.9 eV) of PC61BM [39], and the LUMO gap between the donor oligomer 9 and the acceptor PC61BM is large enough to guarantee photoinduced electron transfer between them [40,41].
A comparison between our D-A-D systems incorporating new donors could be carried out using literature data on those systems incorporating BT as the core.
Several of such systems are known, for example, in D-A-D analogs of 7 and 9, incorporating BT and a very strong donor such as ethylenedioxythiophene, and the HOMO-LUMO energy level determined by CV in solution resulted to be −5.02 and −3.42 eV, values which differ considerably from those of 7 and 9.
Such values substantiate the difference in structures and electron-donating abilities between our new donors and established molecular fragments with strong electron-donating characters.
To understand the role of the HOMO-LUMO structures with respect to the intended donor-BT-donor structure, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were undertaken using the ωB97X-D functional with the 6-31G* basis set.
As expected, the HOMO is delocalized primarily over the donor unit, while the LUMO resides primarily on the BT unit.
In order to verify potential applications of the new oligomers in BHJ OPVs, we used 7, 9, and 10 as an electron donor and PC61BM as an electron acceptor in a 1:1 ratio (w:w).
We have reported the design, synthesis, and characterization of four novel π-extended conjugated oligomers with a D-A-D (donor-acceptor-donor) overall structure, and we have tested them as the donor components for OPV BHJ cells.
Determination of the HOMO and LUMO levels, when compared with D-A-D oligomers known in the literature, demonstrated a different and “milder” donor character of our donor units when compared with other, robust donors (e.g., ehtylenedioxythiophene).
We have previously demonstrated that hydrogen bond-directed self-assembly of conjugated systems represent a useful approach to increase the robustness of organic semiconductors and to preserve the structural integrity of these materials.46,47 Moreover, we have also proved how self-assembly can be used to control the molecular arrangement in the solid state thanks to the strength of hydrogen bonding between rationally located donor and acceptor sites and how self-assembled HTLs benefit the performance of PSCs.48,49 This approach has been further adapted to the development of 2D materials that can extend the self-organization of the molecules within planar domains.50 Based on these results, herein we have investigated the use of 2D-self-assembled π-expanded tripodal molecules as dopant-free HILs.
Besides, three 7-azaindole units have been rationally located in the periphery of the conjugated systems, TACB and TTAI, to direct the 2D-supramolecular self-assembly through reciprocal hydrogen bonding between the hydrogen bond donor sites (N–Hpyrrole) and the hydrogen bond acceptor sites (Npyridine) (Figure 1a).
The tripodal skeleton of these molecules has been rationally designed to incorporate hydrogen bond donor and hydrogen bond acceptor sites that induce the 2D-self-assembly of these materials.
In our model, we ignore any net contribution to the potential from the MA molecules in the ordered state and effectively treat the molecules as electron donors in that case.
Hybrid organic-inorganic solar cells based on organic molecules and inorganic semiconductor crystals, which serve as electron donor and electron acceptor, respectively, attract great attention due to the mutual advantages of the both materials used in the same device [1].
In such a cell, the flexible hybrid core-shell CF-CdS nanobrush serves as the inorganic acceptor component, whereas organic shell of Zn phthalocyanine (ZnPc) or poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) was used as a donor light-absorbing overlayer.
Zinc 2,9,16,23-tetra-tert-butyl-29H, 31H-phthalocyanine (ZnPc-4R) (Sigma-Aldrich) or P3HT (Rieke Metals) served as organic donor counterparts.
The prepared CF/CdS nanobrush structure served as an electron acceptor component of the PV cell and was then covered by an additional layer of donor organic material (ZnPc-4R, P3HT or P3HT:PCBM) resulting in the penetration of the donor material into the porous CdS structure and formation of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) micron-sized solar cells (Fig. 3).
In SSPSSC and SSDSSC, CdS acts as an electron acceptor, while it plays the role of an electron-selective (hole-blocking) layer to direct electrons from the organic counterpart to cathode in DSSC and ISC assemblies.
The PV performance was found to be also dependent both on the type of the contact (solid or liquid) of active BHJ structure with counter hole-collecting electrode (anode) and on the organic donor material as well.
We have showed that a single CF can serve as an aligned core electrode for the growth of CdS NW array followed by deposition of organic donor layer (ZnPc-4R, P3HT or P3HT:PCBM) resulting in active BHJ layers in new micron-sized core-shell PV structures.
A few prominent examples of this work are: the PCE of acceptors with an innovative design was predicted using machine learning (ML) in [8]; the efficiency of P3HT-based organic solar cells was predicted using an ML statistical data fit in [9]; ML models were trained for the estimation of key parameters such as energy level, UV/visible absorption maxima in solution and film states, and the PCE of PBT7-Th-based solar cells in [10].
Many complex materials for donors and acceptors have been introduced over the years; these new materials have improved optoelectronic characteristics, charge generation, and charge transport [3].
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of single-junction organic solar cells has increased significantly during the last decade to 9–10 %, now approaching the threshold considered necessary to commercialize the technology.1 During this period, the structural diversity of semiconducting donor polymers for solar cells has increased dramatically.2 These materials have helped enable an accelerated development of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells based on polymer donor materials and molecular fullerene derivatives.
However, the development of electron-accepting materials that lead to BHJs with high PCE has been significantly slower.3 The most commonly used n-type acceptors to date remain [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) and its slightly larger counterpart PC71BM.
The π–π stacking and optical properties of the material can be tuned by adding different donor units to the DPP-copolymer backbone [16,17].
Employing longer side chains potentially results in decreased device performance through the insulating effect of the side chains, which can hinder the movement of charges, as well as a good donor–acceptor contact [27].
The combined SWV/UV-Vis results indicate that the HOMO is shifted towards vacuum by approximately 0.2 eV, predicting a lower Voc for P2 and P3 compared to P1 since the HOMOpolymer–LUMOacceptor difference influences the energy of the CT-state [32].
The active layers containing, as acceptor, PC71BM (98% nano-c) were prepared with concentrations of 5 mg/mL to 15 mg/mL, dissolved in chloroform (99% Merck) with 23 mg/mL 1,8-diiodooctane (98% Sigma-Aldrich), and stirred for at least 15 h. DCB as a solvent did not result in solutions for P1 and P2.
Here, through introducing a small molecule donor BTR as a guest component to the PCE-10:PC71BM binary system, we show that photocarrier losses via recombination are mitigated with respect the binary OSCs, owing to a reduced bimolecular recombination.
These benefits brought by the third guest donor are important for attaining improvements on key photophysical processes governing the photovoltaic efficiencies in organic ternary solar cells.
As a result, the power conversion efficiencies (PCE) have exceeded 10% (Kan et al., 2017) with PCEs > 14% using blends of two non-fullerene acceptors (Xiao et al., 2017).
A successful design for ternary OSCs involve introducing a small molecule (SM) donor into the polymer blends where the carrier transport profits from the high crystallinity of SM donors (Zhang et al., 2017a).
Ternary blends with two co-blended SM-donors also have been reported showing enlarged PCEs (Baran et al., 2016).
Recently, there have emerged ternary blends comprising of two well-miscible acceptors with which the photocurrent can increase due to the complementary absorption of acceptor alloy (Jiang et al., 2017b).
Values of γ < 1 have been observed in binary OSCs with non-fullerene acceptors, which can be correlated to the transport balance in the BHJ film.
In this context, it will be of interest to concern a guest molecular donor with a low recombination rate and examine how the recombination process in ternary blends is modulated in the presence of donor guest.
In this article, we chose a ternary model system comprising a polymeric donor ([4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-co-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]-thiophene-2-carboxylate]) PCE-10 (Liao et al., 2013) blended with PC71BM as the prime binary BHJ and a liquid crystal benzodithiophene terthiophene rhodanine (BTR) (Sun et al., 2015) as the third SM-donor guest (see chemical structure of different components in Figure 1A).
The suppressed charge recombination in ternary devices leads to more efficient carrier extraction, which explains the simultaneously enhanced photocurrent and fill factor in the presence of BTR donor.
(B) Illustration of binary blends comprising of a polymer donor and fullerene acceptor alongside ternary blends with addition of a third small molecule (SM) acceptor.
Also highlighted by ovals are the interfaces between polymer donor/PC71BM (orange) and SM-donor/PC71BM (red).
Figure 1B schematically illustrates the nanomorphology of PCE-10:PC71BM binary and ternary blends with the co-blended BTR SM-donor.
The chosen liquid crystal BTR donor possesses a deeper-lying energy of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) at ~5.36 eV and an absorption between 400 and 550 nm.
(B) Photoluminescence (PL) quenching based on neat donor(s) and binary (ternary) blend films.
(C) PL spectroscopy of neat and co-blended donor films.
In addition to the broadened absorption, it is a prerequisite that the singlet excitons created in the guest donor of ternary blends can dissociate into mobile carriers to contribute to the photocurrent (Lu et al., 2014).
Figure 2B shows steady-state PL spectroscopy measured on thin films of neat donors, binary and ternary blends.
As can be seen, the PCE-10:PC71BM binary and ternary bled films both display a strongly quenched PL at ~760 nm originating from singlet excitons in the PCE-10 donor (Chen et al., 2017), corresponding to a PLquench of 99.88% (PCE-10 blends) and 99.39% (ternary blends).
The quenching of PL from BTR (~708 nm) is also pronounced in the ternary blends, which is in contrast to the less significant quenching of the donor PL in BTR:PC71BM (Figure 2B) showing a PLquench of 93%.
To better assess charge transfers in the ternary blends, we also examined PL of co-blended donor films with the results shown in Figure 2C.
With 20% of BTR, the PL of donor blends resembles that of neat PCE-10 and we cannot observe the emission from the SM donor (around 708 nm).
The significant quenching of singlet excitons in BTR is suggestive of efficient hole transfers from the SM-donor toward PCE-10 polymer, which seems to be driven under the HOMO energy offset of ~200 meV (see Figure 1B).
The PL results provides evidence for the occurrence of electron transfers at the donor/PC71BM and hole transfers at the BTR/PCE-10 interfaces in the ternary blends.
The PCE-10 and BTR binary solar cells produce a PCE of 8.8 and 6.92%, respectively at the optimized conditions (the D/A ratios are both of 1:1.1 for cells with the polymer and SM-donors).
Upon addition 20% of BTR guest donor into the polymer binary blend, the ultimate PCE receives a considerable enhancement to 10.88%, showing an enhanced Jsc = 20.34 mA/cm2 and FF = 69.02%.
The Voc result is in line with the general tendency in ternary solar cells where the Voc takes advantage of the binary system having a larger effective band gap, defined by the energetic offset between donor HOMO and acceptor LUMO (Scharber et al., 2006).
Upon addition of the BTR donor, we observe opposite changes in the mobility of the two carriers, i.e., μp in the ternary blend increases with respect to μp in the two binary systems, while μn becomes slightly reduced.
In a previous study based on the ITIC electron acceptor, we show that the imbalanced carrier mobility in BHJ solar cells does not necessarily cause an enlargement of recombination, on the contrary it beneficially leads to a stronger reduction for bimolecular recombination (Zhang et al., 2017b).
The presence of the recombination factor can be understood where faster carriers in the BHJ have to wait for their slower counterparts to recombine at the donor/acceptor interface, effectively weakening the encounter probability, and recombination intensity (Wehenkel et al., 2012).
An important indication from the TPC measurements is that the introduced BTR donor promotes the efficiency for charge collection in the ternary solar cell in competition with recombination.
These results can benefit from the introduced BTR donor with the lowest value of B in blend with PC71BM.
With the identified impacts of recombination on the behaviors in ternary devices, at last we turn to the influence of BTR guest donor on Voc.
The energetic offset between CTS and excited states in donor constitutes the radiative losses in Voc (Shenkun et al., 2018).
Strategically, we show that the reduction factor for recombination is modulated through co-blending the BTR donor with intrinsically a low recombination rate and balanced carrier mobility in blend with PC71BM acceptor.
The presented benefits in the presence of small molecule donor frame a useful guideline for future design of high efficiency ternary organic solar cells.
In the OSC structures, the metallic phthalocyanines are good electron donor candidates that can be combined with C60 fullerene which acts as acceptor material and assures the exciton dissociation interface [9].
This technique was implemented on the model systems based on fullerene derivative (P3HT:PC71BM) and non-fullerene systems (PBDBT:ITIC, PM6:Y6), which demonstrated the successful extraction of the quantitative out-of-plane acceptor domain size of OSC systems.
Organic p-type (donor) and n-type (acceptor) semiconducting materials are mixed in the active layer to create rich donor/acceptor (D/A) interfaces for exciton dissociation.
Then, we generalize the applicability of this method to two typical non-fullerene (NF) acceptor-based systems, PBDB-T:ITIC23,24 and PM6:Y625 fabricated with different processing conditions.
The relatively smaller acceptor domain size in the OOP direction compared with the domain size in the IP direction is likely owing to the physical confinement imposed in the OOP direction by the thin film structure, which is also observed in NFA-based BHJ films studied below.
We choose a typical NF acceptor-based system, PBDB-T:ITIC23,24 (Fig.
The shorter decay time in the control and DIO samples is related to higher electron transfer efficiency from the donor to the acceptor, directly associated with the observed much smaller OOP domain sizes, which increase the D/A interfaces.
13a), in which the N-rich region refers to the acceptor Y6 phase, whereas the S-rich region refers to the donor enrichment phase.
Extraordinary efforts have also been devoted toward developing semiconducting polymers with ‘donor–acceptor' type of architectures.
These structures feature alternating electron-rich (donor, D) and electron-poor (acceptor, A) moieties along the backbone and this combination leads to optical bandgaps suitable for applications in organic solar cells323334.
5-Fluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (FBT) is an acceptor fragment with similar symmetry to that of PT.
2a, the higher reactivity of the C-Br in the meta-position relative to fluorine can be used to generate an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D1–A) intermediate, described in the original report as a macromonomer, for which the fluorine atoms are distal to the electron-donating dithienyl-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (DT-BDT) central unit56.
Subsequent polymerization based on the macromonomer enables variations in the donor fragment substituents, thus affording polymers with unique A–D1–A–D1 or A–D1–A–D2 architectures that offer performance benefits over the random counterparts.
To address this issue, the asymmetric monofluoro-substituted BT has been used as the acceptor, see Fig.
6d) have also been constructed by combining two different donor fragments (IDT and CDT), and forcing the pyridyl N-atoms to point towards the CDT unit84.
This structural insight indicates that the molecular precision of PIPCP translates into BHJ films with higher levels of morphological order in the donor phase.
Eloss is defined here as Eg−eVOC, where Eg is the optical bandgap of the donor polymer, and eVOC is obtained from BHJ blends prepared with PIPCP and either PC61BM or [6,6]-phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM).
Subsequent studies revealed that the energy of the bandgap and the charge transfer state was nearly equal, suggesting that PIPCP:PC61BM blends provide minimal energy losses when considering the exciton and the charge transfer state, except for the relatively small offset between the tail state of the LUMO levels of the donor and acceptors.
In addition to the asymmetric TT unit of the PTB series polymers, researchers investigated the symmetry of donor comonomer by constructing thienothiophene quinoidal character with enlarged molecular size89.
It is worth noting that copolymers with symmetric donor comonomer exhibit comparable PCE at the same order of PTB7, while the copolymer based on the comonomer that only has C1 symmetry exhibits extremely low PCE.
The significantly enhanced photovoltaic performances of regioregular donor–acceptor narrow-bandgap polymers highlight the need for precise control over the distribution of monomeric units, where increased order can reduce open-circuit voltage losses, and provide a more favourable self-organization of the BHJ films.
Using the large volume of data available, we test the hypothesis that copolymerisation of ‘donor’ and ‘acceptor’ monomers can result in copolymers with a lower optical gap than their related homopolymers.
Models that aim to explain this connection for the optoelectronic properties in terms of the donor and acceptor character of building blocks have been proposed in the literature, but these are generally qualitative in nature.19–21
Emergence of copolymer properties and the donor–acceptor model
As briefly mentioned in the introduction, models that explain the copolymer optoelectronic properties in terms of the donor and acceptor properties of the monomeric building blocks have been proposed in the literature.
In the literature, the case for copolymerisation is often based on the ‘donor–acceptor’ strategy,19,21 where combining monomers with ‘donor’ and ‘acceptor’ qualities allows one to obtain copolymers with small(er) optical gaps.
As such, the requirement for a staggered arrangement maps on to the intuitive donor–acceptor picture used in the experimental literature, but stresses that these labels are only really meaningful when considering pairs of monomers and their properties relative to one another.
Overall, these observations and their explanation lend both context and understanding to the donor–acceptor strategy proposed in the literature.
The large dataset at our disposal also facilitates the testing of common synthetic strategies such as using ‘donor’ and ‘acceptor’ monomers to construct low-optical-gap materials.
Compounds Q7, Q14 and Q10 with investigating EHOMO respectively -5.363, -5.363 and -5.417 eV, have a low contribution in e−-D capacity because they restrain a group in the e−-donor moiety.
AbstractAn important step of the great achievement of organic solar cells in power conversion efficiency is the development of low‐band gap polymer donors, PBDB−T derivatives, which present interesting aggregation effects dominating the device performance.
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) has exceeded 18 % based‐on polymer donors and non‐fullerene acceptors (NFA).
[ 1 ,  2 ] The class of PBDB−T based polymers, consisting of 2‐alkylthiophene‐substituted benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene (BDT) and 1,3‐bis(thiophen‐2‐yl)‐5,7‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)benzo‐[1,2‐c:4,5‐c′]dithiophene‐4,8‐dione (BDD) units, plays a dominate position in the development of efficient OSCs [3]  The band gap of the donor polymer is around 1.8 eV with an absorption onset around 670 nm, which is complementary with those of most NFAs.
[ 10 ,  11 ,  12 ,  13 ,  14 ] Up to now, the parametric gradients of thickness, donor/acceptor ratio, ternary composition and annealing temperature of the active layers have been established by HTP in the field of bulk‐heterojunction composites as typically used for organic photovoltaics (OPV).
It can pave the way for the development of polymer donor in OPV fields.
This spatially correlated disorder shortens the exciton coherence length which has a strong influence on the exciton energy, a decisive factor controlling exciton splitting when combined with non‐fullerene acceptors of vanishing driving force.
Polymer donor PM6 was purchased from Solarmer Beijing, and the chemical solvents and additives were purchased from Sigma‐Aldrich.
This effect is seen in dyes with an electron-rich donor part at one end and an acceptor part at the opposite side, ending in an anchoring group (such as the carboxyl group), and kept together by a π bridge.
A push-pull effect occurs when the ground state of the dye has the charge localized on the donor part and the excited state, reached after light absorption, has the charge localized on the acceptor part, right next to the TiO2.
During the past decade, our group has synthesized various classes of donor materials for OPV taking advantage of the strong electron-donating properties and high hole-mobility of TPA-based materials and of a possible access to simple and cost-effective materials.
For instance, promising conversion efficiencies have been reached with OPV cells based on the molecular donor M1 9 (Fig.
It was therefore interesting to investigate the effects of TT on the efficiency of D as donor material in OPV cells.
The evaluation of the performances of D as donor material for OPV was carried out on simple bi-layer heterojunction solar cells fabricated by successive vacuum deposition of D, fullerene C60 and aluminium on ITO/PEDOT:PSS substrates.
Application of a 5 min TT at 140 °C, produces an increase of J sc to 4.82 mA cm−2 and a significant improvement of FF, leading to a five-fold increase of PCE to a value of ~2%.Figure 9Top: Current density vs voltage curves of a bi-layer cell donor/C60 under AM 1.5 simulated solar light (80 mW cm−2).
Top: Current density vs voltage curves of a bi-layer cell donor/C60 under AM 1.5 simulated solar light (80 mW cm−2).
5), this suggests that the improvement of increase of PCE upon TT is due for a large part to the increase of hole mobility20, as already observed for other molecular donors21.
Attaining a carbon-neutral, sustainable, and global energy infrastructure based on renewable sources will likely require widespread implementation of photovoltaic cells, thus the development of inexpensive and efficient photovoltaics that can be manufactured by scalable methods is an important goal.1 Amongst various emerging technologies alternative to traditional silicon photovoltaics (including thin film inorganic,2,3 dye sensitized,4 and perovskite5 solar cells), organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices, which rely on a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) between polymeric or small-molecule carbon-based p-type (electron donor) and n-type (electron acceptor) semiconductors, have attracted significant interest given their promise for achieving high performance while also being low-cost and amenable with scalable roll-to-roll manufacturing.6,7 While the ongoing development of OPVs has led to impressive power conversion efficiency >10%, typical state-of-the-art devices are fabricated using toxic chlorinated or aromatic solvents,8 which undermines their sustainable application at a global scale.
Indeed a percolating network of precisely-sized nanometer donor/acceptor domains in the BHJ is required for high OPV efficiency.23–25 While the optimum BHJ morphology can be readily tuned using solvent processing techniques,26 similar morphology control in melt-processed BHJs remains a challenge.
The use of donor–acceptor block-copolymers27 is a rational route to control the size of donor/acceptor domains under melt-processing conditions given the covalent link between the two components that prevents the macro-scale phase segregation, which is the thermodynamically preferred solid-state arrangement of typical BHJ components.
recently reported a donor–acceptor block-copolymer-based system that afforded promising performance in melt-annealed OPVs.28 However this work also established that the alteration of component molecular structure (through side-chain fluorination) is required with this approach to produce a system wherein the donor and acceptor components remain phase-separated in the melt (to ensure that that they form the required nanometer phase segregated BHJ upon solidification).
We hypothesized that this could be accomplished with strongly-crystalline molecular donor and acceptor components (to drive phase separation in the solid state) together with a molecular compatibilizing additive30 to afford tunability of the BHJ phase domains.
Herein we demonstrate this melting/compatibilization approach using a molecular BHJ system with two common OSCs; a diketopyrrolopyrrole-based donor and a perylene diimide acceptor, both of which are known to strongly crystalize in the solid state.
The molecular structures of the electron donor, coded as DPP(TBFu)2,31 and acceptor (coded as EP-PDI), both chosen based on their established high crystallinity in BHJs,32,33 are shown in Fig.
A non-conjugated aliphatic linker strategy was chosen for the structure of the MCP as this approach has been established to affect the self-assembly of small-molecule semiconductors without alerting the pi-conjugated semiconducting molecular core.34,35 Detailed synthesis and characterization of the MCP is given in the ESI.† In order to first establish the solid-state phase behavior and melt-processing conditions, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was performed on solvent-cast BHJ blends (1 : 1 donor : acceptor by weight) with varying wt% of added MCP (see Fig.
A MCP loading of 10 or 25 wt% in the BHJ leads to a decrease in the transition specific enthalpies (see Table S1, ESI†) and a depression of transition temperatures during heating as expected for a compatibilizer.30 Importantly, these results suggest that the donor and acceptor retain the ability to recrystallize from the melt in the presence of significant amounts of the MCP.
(b) DSC of the first heating/cooling scans (10 °C min–1) of 1 : 1 donor : acceptor BHJs with varying MCP loading (wt%).
The trend in the molecular ordering in the presence of the MCP as implied by the DSC, was further investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements of BHJ films treated at 240 °C (above Tm of the donor) and cooled to ambient temperature.
For the DPP(TBFu)2 these results agree qualitatively with the DSC data and confirm that the donor retains some crystallinity even after melting/solidification in the presence of the MCP.
In addition, the XRD measurements show that the molecular ordering of the donor exists even after melting with 50 wt% MCP, in contrast to the DSC where no clear transition was detected (likely due to peak broadening).
This contrast is greater with the EP-PDI, where the XRD data suggest that, while the crystallinity does decrease with added MCP loading, a significant amount of acceptor phase ordering remains present in films even after melting/solidification with 75 wt% MCP.
Given the high melting point of the EP-PDI (>350 °C) this calls into question the nature of the acceptor phase at 240 °C in the presence of the (melted) donor and MCP.
These results clearly indicate an absence of crystallinity of the EP-PDI at 240 °C even without the MCP present, consistent with the donor and acceptor forming a single homogeneous liquid phase at a temperature above the melting temperature of the donor phase, similar to other systems.20,21 The formation of a single homogeneous liquid phase at 240 °C was further verified with optical microscopy (see ESI video† that shows the melting and re-solidification of a 1 : 1 BHJ film without MCP).
2 for 1 : 1 donor : acceptor BHJs with different MCP loading.
Briefly, the donor phase is expected to appear with a lower contact potential difference, VCPD, in the BHJ compared to the acceptor phase.
With increasing MCP loading and the corresponding change in topographical morphology, the KPFM data show a decrease in the size of the donor and acceptor domains and an increase in donor : acceptor mixing in the BHJ as implied by the VCPD histograms, which become increasingly unimodal and narrow.
Therefore, we conclude that the level of donor : acceptor intermixing and the phase domain sizes in melted BHJs can be modulated with varying MCP loading.
Since PL quenching corresponds to an increased probability for photogenerated excitons to reach the donor–acceptor interface and undergo charge separation (instead of radiative recombination) this trend corresponds well with the morphological changes exhibited in the KPFM analysis.
S4, ESI†) and relative molecular ordering (RMO, estimated from the integration of XRD scattering from both donor and acceptor components, see Fig.
3b) can be well understood by a trade-off between free charge generation (exciton dissociation) at the donor : acceptor interface and the presence of sufficiently large pure domains to afford the transport of free charges to their respective collecting electrodes.
During solvent quenching, a more homogeneous donor : acceptor blend is formed with the MCP present.
The 110 °C, 15 min annealing conditions are evidently insufficient to drive the crystallization and phase segregation of the donor and acceptor to form the necessary percolating network of pure phases.
The further optimization of the processing method and the use of higher-performance molecular donor : acceptor combinations41–43 with their tailored molecular compatibilizers will likely result in melt-processed molecular photovoltaics with high efficiency and excellent thermal stability.
In conclusion, we have shown that a molecular compatibilizer, which consists of donor and acceptor species covalently-linked with a non-conjugated linker, affords morphology control in melt-processed BHJs.
By employing highly crystalline molecular donor and acceptor species we demonstrated the ability to process a BHJ from a homogeneous single phase melt into a photoactive OPV device with tunable domain sizes in the BHJ by modulating the loading of the MCP.
Tuning the trade-off between donor : acceptor interfacial area and ordered pure domains using the MCP, as supported by AFM, KPFM, XRD and PL measurements, revealed the optimum device performance with a PCE of ca.
1% at 50 wt% loading of MCP in a 1 : 1 donor : acceptor BHJ.
They are usually classified into donors, unions or acceptors [33], and achieve energy conversion efficiencies in the range of 5–9%, although the best efficiency attained by union dyes is ~10% [37,38], and that of the best donor reaches 10.3% [39].
They comprise electron donor and electron acceptor materials: the donor absorbs the photons from the solar radiation, where excited states (or excitons) are created and confined [69].
The acceptor is the material acquiring the electrons from the dissociated electron-hole pairs.
The charge separation of an exciton into a free electron/hole pair at the donor-acceptor interface is schematized in Figure 11.
The open circuit voltage Voc is the difference between the HOMO of the donor material and the LUMO of the acceptor material.
OPVCs can be further classified into two groups according to the chemical structure of the electron donor (p-type) semiconductor: polymer solar cells (PSCs) and small molecule solar cells.
The hetero-junction architecture consists in a sandwich connection of organic materials between two metallic conductors, typically ITO, separated by a metal coating such as Al, Mg, or Ca; the organic layer with the highest EA and IP value would be the acceptor, while the other would be the donor.
A more efficient option is the use of bulk hetero-junctions (BHJ) [73], formed by blending an electron-rich conjugated polymer as donor and an electron-deficient fullerene as acceptor with a bicontinuous nanoscale interpenetrating network; since the area of the D-A interface is significantly increased, the exciton dissociation efficiency is improved compared to the other architectures.
The best laboratory performance in OPVCs (22.4%) has been attained with P3HT as donor material [73].
Most OPSCs are based on the BHJ architecture, in which the ideal active layer consists in a bicontinuous interpenetrating network of donor and acceptor at the nanometer scale with maximum interfacial area.
The efficiency enhancement in BHJ solar cells compared to other architectures is attributed to the more efficient exciton dissociation enabled by the larger heterojunction interface and the better charge carrier collection due to the formation of an interpenetrating donor-acceptor network [139].
In this regard, G shows great potential to be used in active layers owing to its 2D structure and large specific surface area that would promote the development of an interpenetrating donor-acceptor network at the nanoscale.
The first use of solution-processable functionalized G as an electron-acceptor material in PSCs was reported by in 2008 by Liu and coworkers (Figure 24 [140]).
Then, a composite film of poly(3-octylthiophene) (P3OT) as a donor and the functionalized G as acceptor was prepared by spin coating.
The annealing process removes some functional groups, thus improving the charge transport, and increases the crystallinity of the donor matrix, consequently enhancing the properties of the optical active layer.
A P3HT/solution processable G/functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (f-MWCNTs) composite has also been used as an active layer in PSCs, where G acted as electron acceptor, P3HT as donor and the f-MWCNTs provided percolation paths of holes [141].
Understanding their charge transport properties is crucial prior to incorporating them as donors or acceptors in PSCs.
In this review, we discuss how parameters of device constituents affect the distributions of potential and the dark charges in conventional OPVs comprising metallophthalocyanine and C60 as donor and acceptor, respectively.
Use of non-fullerene acceptors, in particular, boosts power conversion efficiency to over 17% [5] and even 18% for a single-junction OPV cell [6].
Large absorption coefficients in the visible-light range and sufficient charge mobility are prerequisites for donor and acceptor.
Energy levels play decisive roles in the elementary events: energy offsets of the frontier orbitals at the donor/acceptor interface are required to form charge-transfer (CT) states that are precursors of free charges.
Moreover, non-monotonic energy shifts have been reported for donor/acceptor interfaces [13,16,21].
Based on these findings, we will discuss how parameters of the device, such as layer thickness, etc., influence the behavior of Fermi-level pinning and then potential/contact-induced charge distributions at the electrode/organic and organic donor/acceptor interfaces.
We chose metallophthalocyanine and C60 as a prototypical donor and acceptor used in conventional OPVs, respectively.
In a planar-heterojunction OPV cell, donor molecules make contact solely with an anode and acceptor molecules make contact with a cathode.
Molecular composition near the electrodes in a bulk heterojunction, however, becomes complicated in general, because both donor and acceptor may interface with each electrode when a donor/acceptor blend is formed by co-evaporation or spin-coating.
Thus, a reversed stacking, for instance, an anode/acceptor/donor junction, would exist in a bulk-heterojunction OPV cell.
It is however remarkable that contact-induced charges are present also at the donor/acceptor interface.
Taking this effect into account under assumption of identical molecular composition over a whole thickness range, fitting the thickness-dependent evolution of work function with electrostatic simulation will reveal information regarding static disorder in the bulk heterojunction for donor and acceptor.
First, as mentioned just above, implementing the influence of molecular quadrupolar fields [58,59] on changes in ionization energy and electron affinity at the donor/acceptor interface will give us a more precise energetic landscape at the interface.
Efficient OPVs that have recently been reported on constitute donors with higher ionization energy than ZnPc and acceptors with a similar ionization energy or electron affinity to the donor [60,61,62].
These differences in electronic properties between conventional and recent donor/acceptor pairs must differentiate the energy-level lineup in OPVs.
Electrostatic simulations for state-of-the-art donor/acceptor pairs are ongoing and will be reported elsewhere.
Despite numerous organic semiconducting materials synthesized for organic photovoltaics in the past decade, fullerenes are widely used as electron acceptors in highly efficient bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
Design principles for fullerene-free acceptors remain unclear in the field.
Here we report examples of helical molecular semiconductors as electron acceptors that are on par with fullerene derivatives in efficient solar cells.
Femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy revealed both electron and hole transfer processes at the donor−acceptor interfaces.
Atomic force microscopy reveals a mesh-like network of acceptors with pores that are tens of nanometres in diameter for efficient exciton separation and charge transport.
This study describes a new motif for designing highly efficient acceptors for organic solar cells.
In organic photovoltaics, the best-performing devices are often based on fullerene derivatives as the electron acceptor counterpart.
Here, the authors present new molecular electron acceptors with a helical structure and achieve 8.3% power conversion efficiency.
In the past decade, the record power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells has reached over 10% for single junction cells12 and more than 12% for tandem cells3, mainly by synthesizing and incorporating new electron donors45, optimizing film morphology16, developing interfacial layers789 and designing new device structures101112.
One lagging area is the development of new electron acceptors for organic solar cells.
To date, highly efficient BHJ solar cells almost exclusively use fullerene derivatives, such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61/71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM and PC71BM), as electron acceptors13.
Theoretical analysis suggests that the superiority of fullerene over non-fullerene electron acceptors is in the charge separation14.
Recently, several studies, including our own, have reported solution-processed BHJ devices using non-fullerene acceptors that have achieved PCEs of 6%–7% (refs 15, 16, 17, 18, 19).
Continued progress will require the design, synthesis and testing of new motifs for electron acceptors.
We herein use two helical n-type molecules that differ in their lengths as highly efficient electron acceptors.
The film morphology of the mixed donor/acceptor active layer is a mesh-like network of acceptors with pores that are tens of nanometres in diameter.
Transient absorption (TA) spectroscopy reveals that excitons generated in both the donor and acceptor phases contribute to the photocurrent by effective hole and electron transfer at the interface between donor and acceptor.
Similar to the shorter one, the longer acceptors explored here also have relatively high electron mobilities (0.04–0.05 cm2 V−1 s−1 in thin film transistors), good electron-accepting ability and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels (approximately −3.9 eV) that are appropriately matched to those of commercially available electron-donating polymers (Fig.
Similar to prior non-fullerene electron acceptors that have been moderately successful in solar cells152122, these molecules possess nonplanar molecular structures due to the steric congestion in the cove areas defined by the junction point between the PDIs.
Our device demonstrations using the compounds hPDI3 and hPDI4 as electron acceptors are based on the commercially available low bandgap semiconducting polymer donors polythieno[3,4-b]-thiophene-co-benzodithiophene (PTB7)4 and poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene)-2-carboxylate-2,6-diyl] (PTB7-Th)5 (shown in Fig.
For each combination of blended polymer and helical molecule device active layer, we varied the ratio of donor and acceptor, and optimized the film morphology with the solvent additive diiodooctane (DIO)6 (see details about device optimization process in Supplementary Figs 3–6 and Supplementary Tables 1–4).
For devices based on acceptor hPDI3, we obtain optimal device performance with donor:acceptor mass ratio of 1:1.5, with 1% DIO additive (v/v).
For solar cells based on the electron acceptor hPDI4, we achieved optimal device performance with donor-to-acceptor mass ratio of 1:1 and 1% DIO additive (v/v).
These molecules are the first example of electron acceptors that are on par with fullerene derivatives in efficient BHJ solar cells with a PCE >8% and provide a new route to exploring improvements to BHJ device performance.
Previously reported solar cells with non-fullerene acceptors typically have Jsc <14 mA cm−2 and FF values below 60% (refs 15, 16, 17, 18), which may be indicators of sub-optimal charge-carrier collection.
The lower electron mobility in PTB7-Th:hPDI4 compared with that of PTB7-Th:hPDI3 is probably due to reduced mass ratio of the electron acceptor in the blended film (50% in PTB7-Th:hPDI4 versus 60% in PTB7-Th:hPDI3).
It is notable that all the EQE data consist of maximal transition bands around 550 nm that is mainly from the absorption of the acceptors.
The important conclusion is that the photogenerated excitons from electron acceptors contribute greatly to the photocurrent in these solar cells.
The helical electron acceptors can thus complement low-bandgap electron donors for an efficient harvesting of solar radiation in a broad wavelength region.
To establish this dual light-harvesting mechanism, we use TA spectroscopy to investigate exciton generation in the donor and acceptor, and charge transfer between the two materials.
3b), suggesting ultrafast electron transfer from photoexcited PTB7 to the electron acceptor, hPDI3.
We assign τ1 (0.12±0.03 ps) to the ultrafast exciton dissociation of PTB7 at the interface with electron acceptor hPDI3 (refs 16, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35) and τ2 (1.3±0.2 ps), to the diffusion of excitons in PTB7 towards interfaces before dissociation36.
The TA results presented above establish that photoexcitation of either the donor or the acceptor contribute to charge-carrier generation.
Similar to PC71BM-based BHJs31323334, ultrafast exciton generation from these acceptors in the blended film compensates photoexcitation of the donor, resulting in broad photoresponse over the visible light region.
It is well known that proper phase separation and interpenetrating networks of donor and acceptor domains are critical to charge separation and carrier transport.
Many studies on the film morphology in polymer/fullerene solar cells suggest optimal morphology for device operation is to have aggregated domains with sizes on approximately tens of nanometres for both the donor and acceptor1338.
This assertion is consistent with the observation that the intensities of the (100) reflections of the polymer donors are each concentrated at the equator.
22d,e exhibit the GIXD patterns of thin films comprising each of the polymer donor with hPDI3.
The primary reflections of the polymer donors and hPDI3 overlap substantially.
Comparing the GIXD patterns of the blends at higher q-range with those of the constituent polymer donors does, however, reveal differences.
We observe the (010) reflections in the GIXD patterns of the blends to be substantially weaker than those in the patterns of the polymer donor constituents.
Collectively, these observations suggest the addition of hPDI3 to disrupt the crystallization of the polymer donor constituents and crystallites that form are less oriented compared with those in thin films comprising the polymer donor constituents alone.
This study introduces a new class of highly efficient electron acceptors for organic BHJ solar cells, consisting of helical conjugated PDI oligomers.
We believe the values reported here represent a lower limit for what is achievable, and that creating electron donor materials that are matched both structurally and electronically with these molecules is a clear path to further improvement.
Active layers were prepared by spin-coating a mixed solution containing polymer and acceptor in chlorobenzene at a total concentration of 25 mg ml−1.
Average device parameters were obtained from at least 6 devices at each condition and at least 12 devices at the optimal condition for each donor–acceptor combination.
Molecular helices as electron acceptors in high-performance bulk heterojunction solar cells.
A series of donor–acceptor (D–A)‐type conjugated organic molecules have also been reported to replace amorphous Spiro‐OMeTAD HTMs, for their advantages, such as easy purification, tunable energy levels, high mobility and conductivity, and good film morphology.
Donor–acceptor (D–A) type conducting polymers are candidate alternatives due to their unique and tunable optical and electrical properties, such as energy levels, low bandgap, high mobility, and good film formability.84 Kim and co‐workers reported a novel D–A polymeric HTM based on benzo [1,2‐b:4,5:b′]dithiophene (BDT) and 2,1,3‐benzothiadiazole (BT), named RCP, composed of P‐OR and P‐R as illustrated in Figure 5.85 P‐OR had high hole mobility (≈103 cm2 V−1 s−1), however, its HOMO energy level was deeper than that of CH3NH3PbI3, which was unfavorable for hole transferring from perovskite to HTM.
first reported a C60‐SAM (Figure 6a) layer on mesoporous TiO2 as an effective electron acceptor.132 Afterward, the same team also used C60‐SAM to modify the surface of compact TiO2 layer.133 With accelerated electron transfer and reduced nonradiative recombination at ETM/perovskite interface, the fullerene modified devices achieved a PCE up to 15.7% with significantly reduced hysteresis.
introduced single layered self‐assembled organic nanocomposites (SAONs) containing n‐type polyelectrolytes and fullerene derivatives (PEI:PC61BM) as a new ETM in regular PSCs.150 Driven by the surface energy difference of the SAONs components, a spontaneous vertical phase separation appeared and formed dual‐functional ETM containing an electron acceptor and surface WF modifier, as shown in Figure 7c.
Zhang and co‐workers pioneered the use of a fused‐ring electron acceptor ((2,2′‐[(4,4,9,9‐tetrahexyl‐4,9‐dihydro‐s‐indaceno[1,2‐b:5,6‐b′]dithiophene‐2,7‐diyl) bis[methylidyne(3‐oxo‐1H‐indene‐2,1(3H)‐diylidene)]]bis‐propanedinitrile) (IDIC), Figure 6b) as ETM to replace TiO2 in regular PSCs.155 Due to the high mobility, suitable energy levels, the hydrophobicity, and incompatible wetting surface, IDIC‐based devices exhibited enhanced perovskite crystallinity and film quality in parallel to efficient electron extraction and transport at ETM/perovskite interface, as a result, a champion PCE of 19.1% was achieved.
Huge amount of excellent organic polymers as ETMs or acceptors in OSCs has been implied in PSCs.
Given the easy tunable optical, electronic, and electrical properties, the absence of acceptor polymer materials, flexible fabrication processes, better film formation property, and potentiality to donate extra current density, it is worth exploring and making use of ideal polymeric materials as ETMS in PSCs to improve the PSCs technology.
In addition, the stability was significantly improved that 90% of the original PCE could be retained after exposing to an ambient environment for 30 d. The common used n‐type acceptors, e.g., naphthalenediimide (NDI)‐based or PDI‐based conjugated polymers in OSCs, can also be effective ETMs in planar PSCs.
In organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs), the highest power conversion efficiencies are achieved in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices in which the active layer is made by blending electron donor and acceptor materials1234.
To determine the exciton diffusion coefficient, we have dispersed electron donor-functionalized molecules into the PC71BM film and measured the time-resolved luminescence (TRL) of PC71BM to tell us about the degree of PL quenching.
Intimate mixing will give large interfacial areas for efficient charge formation; however, charge pairs formed at the donor–acceptor interface are Coulombically bound and will recombine geminately3536373839 unless they are extracted by continuous networks of polymer and fullerene.
Charge transport modelling indicates the importance of continuous phases of the donor and acceptor materials and good connectivity to the appropriate electrodes, whereas the domain size has been found to be less important50.
We are therefore left to consider that bundles of extended PTB7 chains form a template that helps self-organization of fullerene molecules around them, forming fibrous strands of both the donor and acceptor materials, which are advantageous for efficient OPV performance.
To determine the Förster radius, R0, for RET from the PC71BM donor to the PTB7 acceptor we use equation 6 (ref.
where κ is the orientation factor between the donor and acceptor and is taken to be 2/3 for randomly orientated dipoles, ηD is the PL quantum yield of the donor (measured to be 0.015 for PC71BM doped in PMMA at 1% concentration), n is the refractive index of the film (taken to be 1.9), NA is Avogadro’s number, fd(λ) is the PC71BM fluorescence spectrum normalized to area 1 and εA(λ) is the molar absorption coefficient spectrum of PTB7, with values derived from a solution of PTB7.
Power conversion efficiencies of 5% were obtained by carefully selecting the donor and acceptor polymer pairs to reduce the crystallinity of conjugated polymers in the bulk heterojunction active layer.
For instance, a power conversion efficiency of 13.26% was obtained by adding 30% of a non-fluorinated component BDTPS into a fluorinated polymer o-PBTA-PSF composed of donor and acceptor units [46].
Using sidechain engineering, researchers added alkoxyl chains to the two outermost thiophene rings of an electron acceptor material, affecting the molecular orientation, crystallinity, and morphology of the photoactive layer and leading to a power conversion efficiency of up to 12.65% [47].
Another interesting application of arylene diimides involved bulk heterojunction-type organic photovoltaic cells where they served as the acceptor phase, replacing fullerene derivatives, typically used for this purpose [18,19,20].
The obtained EA values indicate that NDI-4-n-OHePh molecules are better electron acceptors than oxygen traps, whereas NDI-s-Bu ones are on the borderline [23,24].
The distribution of the electron cloud confirms the more pronounced donor/acceptor character of NDI-4-n-OHePh as compared to NDI-s-Bu, caused by weakly electron-donating alkoxy substituents.
Recently, Jelfs and co-workers116 developed an RNN-based deep generative model (refer to Figure 6a) to produce novel donor–acceptor oligomers as potential candidates for organic PVs.
Owing to the existing data on donor–acceptor oligomers not being sufficient for training a robust RNN-based model, they employed transfer learning techniques.
By doing so, they explored the chemical space of donor–acceptor oligomers having an optical gap (HOMO–LUMO) ≤ 2 eV and a dipole moment <2 D. Their methodology generated over 1700 oligomers having these properties, making them promising candidates for organic PVs.
(a) Representative illustration of a workflow for the generation of potential donor–acceptor oligomers to serve as photovoltaic materials.
This work investigates the photovoltaic properties of polymers that include different carbazole blocks as electron donors (D) but the same benzothiadiazole derivative as the electron acceptor (A).
The photovoltaic parameters such as energy level, optical band gap, and light-harvesting ability are highly dependent on the molecular structure of the donor monomer (including their appended flexible alkyl chain).
One is a p-type electron donor, and the other is an n-type electron acceptor.
However, these three electron-rich donor blocks bind the same electron-lacking unit to construct a series of alternating copolymers, and their optoelectronic characteristics are still unknown.
Especially, these donor blocks can greatly tune the energy level, the electron excitation and relaxation path, and the molecular packing behaviors.
By means of computational simulation, the torsion angles between carbazole architecture blocks and the acceptor are as follows: HXS-1 = 27.5°, HXS-2 = 64.5°, HXS-3 = 63.7°, HXS-4 = 1.6°, and HXS-5 = 1.3° (Figure S1).
However, between the branched and linear alkyl group on the same donor blocks, the branched alkyl group facilitates electron delocalization along the conjugated backbone.
This in connection with the XRD analysis gave us some clues that bulky donor units and the affiliated alkyl side chain greatly changed the polymer aggregation ability and the consequent active layer morphology.
Apart from HXS-1 obtaining a high molecular weight but wide PDI, the other polymers with a bulky donor unit had low molecular weights but narrow PDI.
It revealed that the molecular weights heavily depend on the donor block’s solubility in the reaction mixture.
Considering the molecular structure, it was unveiled that, to some extent, it is difficult to break the electron density symmetry in the excited state for large electron-donor-unit polymers (HXS-2 to HXS-5) to form CS state species.
In summary, the photovoltaic efficiencies of five polymers furnished with different carbazole electron donor units were investigated.
Regioregular P3HT (#4002-E, Rieke Metals) was used as the donor and PCBM [C60] (purity 99.5%, Nano-C) as the acceptor in the photoactive blend which was dissolved in 1,2-dichlorobenzene to obtain solid concentration of 0.13 g ml−1.
Dimethylamininobenzyllidene-1-3-indandione (DMABI) is a class of polar organic derivatives of 1,3-indandione composed of a chromophoric electron donor fragment (DMAB) and a chromophoric electron acceptor fragment connected by the –CH= bridge [15,16].
Due to its high absorption in the visible range and air stability this polymer was successfully used as a donor material in organic solar cells reaching nearly 7% efficiency [13–16] and in photodetectors [17].
Usually, characterization of the photovoltaic effect is done using measurements of the pristine photoactive material as well as its mixture with an acceptor material in a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cell.
A comparison of the measurements on the film containing PCBM with the pristine material in the photoelectrochemical cell suggests an effect of charging/discharging directly describing the charge trapping in the acceptor.
Opposite to the expected behaviour of a bulk heterojunction solar cell [28] in the present photoelectrochemical investigation of the PBDTTT-c:PCBM the electrochemical instability of the acceptor strongly hinders the cell performance.
While in most of the solid state devices using BHJ containing PCBM the photocurrent is strongly enhanced due to the improved charge extraction [29, 30], in the photoelectrochemical process the acceptor traps most of the charges.
Due to the fact that the PBDTTT-c was primarily developed to serve as donor material in organic solar cells the photoelectrochemical properties of PBDTTT-c were also assessed under white light illumination.
In both cases, the white light irradiation of the pristine polymer and its mixture with the acceptor only slightly influences the photoelectrochemical response.
It was found that an addition of the PCBM strongly decreases the photocurrent due to the photoelectrochemical degradation of the acceptor.
In the literature, most of the new organic sensitizers are prepared using the very well-known donor-π-acceptor design approach, where the donor bears alkyls chains and the π conjugated bridge is mainly based on symmetrical chromophoric units.
The introduction of a phenyl ring between acceptor benzothiadiazole (BTD) and the cyanoacrylic acid group should stabilize the dye radical cation and decrease recombination rate as showed by Haid et al.23.
The first oxidation peak (Eox1) was found at 0.98 V versus NHE which can be assigned to the oxidation of the triphenylamine donor moiety.
We have designed and synthesized a novel donor-acceptor organic dye (RK1) based on a dissymmetric central core embedding a benzothiadiazole chromophoric unit.
The polymer backbone configuration and the ‘locked’ coplanar conformation of the fBT unit endow P-BNBP-fBT with good crystallinity and high electron mobility as an excellent donor in OSCs.
developed highly efficient and mechanically robust all-PSCs using poly[4, 8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl) thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1, 2-b:4, 5-b’]dithiophene-alt-1, 3-bis(thiophen-2-yl)-5-(2-hexyldecyl)-4H-thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4, 6 (5H)-dione] (PBDTTTPD) as the electron donor and poly[[N,N′-bis(2-hexyldecyl)-naphthalene-1, 4, 5, 8-bis(dicarboximide)-2, 6-diyl]-alt-5, 5′-thiophene] (P(NDI2HD-T)) as the electron acceptor, which achieved a high PCE of 6.64%, higher than that of control fullerene PSCs (PCE = 6.12%) (Figure 1C) (Kim et al., 2016).
Recently, research has focused on non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) in OSCs because of their advantages, including greater optical, electrochemical, and structural flexibility compared to their fullerene counterparts (Lin et al., 2015; Nielsen et al., 2015; Hou et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018a).
reported a series of polymers by minimal structure modification with varying electron donors (Figure 1D) (Jones et al., 2019).
These polymers are consisted of a fluorinated/non-fluorinated benzothiadiazole strong acceptor moiety, a thiophene ester weak acceptor, and various donor units composed of bithiophene, biEDOT, and benzodithiophene to form six acceptor gradient and two non-gradient polymers.
The differences might be due to the formation of an intramolecular charge transfer that occurred for the acceptor gradient.
Regarding OSC-conjugated materials, novel chemical structures with broad optical absorption (typically absorbing light from the visible light to the NIR region), high charge mobility, and low LUMOs as non-fullerene acceptors are popular.
Photovoltaic activity of imines (acting as a donor) in bulk-heterojunction systems has been observed for almost all studied compounds, blended with the fullerene derivative (PCBM) in various weight ratios.
A final part of this paper presents the current-voltage (J-V) characteristics of bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) photovoltaic systems, utilizing these compounds, as donor materials, in a blend of polyazomethine (PAz) with fullerene acceptor (PC61BM) in various weight ratios (1:1, 1:2, 1:3).
All of the investigated compounds (PAz) have been utilized in photovoltaic bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) systems, acting as donor, together with the fullerene derivative (PC61BM), acting as acceptor.
The conventional architecture ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PAz:PC61BM/Al has been chosen, where various weight ratios of donor and acceptor have been studied (1:1, 1:2 and 1:3 wt.).
Almost all of the studied compounds have shown a photovoltaic effect, while acting as a donor, with [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as an acceptor, except for PAz-Carb-OMe, which has shown no activity in all systems.
The increase of the donor:acceptor ratio to 1:2 has enhanced the efficiency of photovoltaic systems consisting PAz-BOO-OOct and PAz-Carb-OOct, while it has completely ceased any activity of PAz-BOO-OMe.
Further increase of the acceptor quantity has ceased activity of the remaining imines.
Almost all compounds have shown the activity in photovoltaic devices, acting as a donor in the blend with fullerene.
Among others, these investigations include ZnO and TiO2 as electron acceptors, both of which have been employed in flat junction devices and also as nanostructured electrodes.2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 For the hole‐selective contact various HTMs have been employed, among them copper(I) thiocyanate (CuSCN),8, 11, 13, 16, 20 poly(3‐hexylthiophene) (P3HT),6, 7, 12, 14, 19, 21 poly[2,6‐(4,4‐bis‐(2‐ethylhexyl)‐4H‐cyclopenta[2,1‐b;3,4‐b′]‐dithiophene)‐alt‐4,7‐(2,1,3‐benzothiadiazole)] (PCPDTBT),6, 18, 23 2,2′,7,7′‐tetrakis‐(N,N‐di‐p‐methoxyphenylamine)9,9′‐spirobifluorene (spiro‐OMeTAD),2, 9, 22 and liquid electrolytes.17, 24
However, although a maximum power conversion efficiency (PCE) of about 7.5% could be achieved in Sb2S3‐based devices utilizing mesoporous TiO2 as an electron acceptor, thioacetamide as a surface modifier, and PCPDTBT as HTM18 in combination with an improved processing procedure, filling of nanostructures by Sb2S3 and subsequently by the HTM is challenging.
High power conversion efficiency had been achieved by incorporation of non-fullerene and small molecule acceptors, which exhibit high absorption spectrum resulting in high photo-current [1,2].
For example, machine learning models are used for selecting the best donor-acceptor combination and for predicting the cell properties [17,18,19,20].
In bulk heterojunction blends the ratio of the donor to the acceptor determine the value of the mobility so, a balance between hole and electron mobility could be achieved by tuning the blend ratio.
This ratio also determines the value of mobility as low ratio of acceptor to donor is reported to enhance the mobility [98].
The exciton then travels to donor/acceptor interface where it separates to free holes and electrons.
Electrons transfer to the cathode through the acceptor material and holes move to the anode through the donor domain due to the internal electric field created by the difference in electrodes work functions.
Proper acceptor structure and HOMO offset level reduces geminate recombination through enhancement of hole extraction [126].
In a system of PBDB-T:O-IDTBR, the ratio of crystallization between donor and acceptor significantly affects recombination losses in the device, blend with large variance in crystallinity suffers from high non-geminate recombination [127].
Our findings show that fulleroids, which are well-known acceptor materials in organic photovoltaic devices, facilitate the extraction of electrons from PSI complexes without sacrificing control over the orientation of the complexes, highlighting this combination of traditional organic semiconductors with biomolecules as a viable approach to coopting natural photosynthetic systems for use in solar cells.
This electron is either injected directly into AuSE (IQAc-PSI) or a fullerene (PCBA/PSI), while the hole that is localized on P700+, which sits on the ambient side of the SAM, is transferred to DCPIP and shuttled to the EGaIn electrode, assisted by ascorbic acid.16,49 Fullerenes are well known as efficient acceptors/n-type semiconductors;50−52 thus, PCBA should readily accept electrons from Fe4S4 (FB) as shown in Figure 3, effectively playing the role that ferredoxin plays on the stromal side of the thylakoid membrane.
One of the advantages of fullerenes is that they can be readily functionalized without substantially affecting their electronic properties; thus, PCBA is functionally nearly identical to the more well-known methanofullerene acceptor PCBM56−59 but with a polar, protic carboxylic acid group at the end of the pendant chain.
NDIs were successfully used as acceptors in organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) [23] or in flexible photovoltaic cells (OPV) with power conversion efficiency of 7.65% [24].
NDIs were also used as molecular sensors, playing the role of acceptors in host–guest-type complexes or as an aromatic electron acceptor in synthetic ion channels [25,26].
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells were fabricated utilizing a similar device architecture as for the OLEDs, apart from the exchange of the emissive layer by a photoactive layer, comprised of a PCDTBT:PC70BM (poly[[9-(1-octylnonyl)-9H-carbazole-2,7-diyl]-2,5-thiophenediyl-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl-2,5-thiophenediyl]:[6,6]-phenyl-C70-butyric acid methyl ester) donor–acceptor copolymer blend.
where n, p, nt, pt, ND+, NA- are the free electron, free hole, trapped electron, trapped hole, ionized donor, and ionized acceptor state concentrations as a function of position x in the device.
The new chromophore, (2Z,2′Z)-2,2′-(1,4-phenylene)bis(3-(5-(4-(diphenylamino)phenyl)thiophen-2-yl)acrylonitrile) (coded as AS2), was based on a donor–acceptor–donor (D–A–D) module where a simple triphenylamine unit served as an electron donor, 1,4-phenylenediacetonitrile as an electron acceptor, and a thiophene ring as the π-bridge embedded between the donor and acceptor functionalities.
Such devices are comprised of an interpenetrating network of organic donor and acceptor domains that is formed during their fabrication via solution processing.
Conventionally, semiconducting donor polymers such as poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and acceptors such as soluble fullerene derivatives, PC61BM and its C71 analogue (PC71BM), have been used to obtain a deeper understanding of device design and morphology [8,9,10,11,12,13].
Power conversion efficiency (PCE) values above 10% has been reported with such polymeric donors [14,15,16,17].
In the interim, solution-processed small molecular donor-based BHJ devices have also aroused interest, mainly due to their advantages of well-defined chemical structure, convenient purification methods, such as simple column chromatography, and monodisperse molecular weight [18,19,20,21,22,23].
These advantages allow and encourage researchers to exert efforts for the design and development of small molecular donors.
Thus, in view of such reports and the fact that BHJ devices incorporating small molecular donors can compete with polymer-based devices, there is an overwhelming interest in developing small molecular donors.
Recent years have seen a dramatic surge not only in terms of device efficiency using small molecular donors but also in their design and efficient synthetic development.
A variety of small molecule donor materials based on donor–acceptor (D–A) combinations such as D–A–D [25,26,27], A–D–A [28,29], D–π–A [18,19,30] and star-shaped architectures [31] have been reported.
The D–A–D design in particular is one of the most promising and successful modules based on which various donor and acceptor units have been explored for high-performance solution-processable photovoltaic devices.
Both materials are based on a D–A–D structural motif where a triphenyl-amine functionality has been chosen as a common donor at both ends of the central acceptor unit, 1,4-phenylenediacetonitrile (PDA), so as to get symmetrical AS2 and AS1.
AS2 is a structural analogue of AS1 where a thiophene ring has been introduced between the donor and acceptor functionalities in order to vary the optoelectronic and photovoltaic properties (Figure 1).
When compared with the commonly used accepting groups, such as dicyanovinylidene, aromatizable cyanopyridone, indenedione or oxoindenemalononitrile [38,39], PDA can be an acceptor of choice for extended π-conjugation over the whole molecular backbone, mainly due to its bidentate nature.
However, its suitability as an acceptor in small molecular chromophores, particularly D–A–D modular, for BHJ applications is still unknown [4,21].
Owing to the exploration of PDA acceptor unit in the D–A–D module, this study continues our search for the generation of new organic chromophores for BHJ applications.
The materials AS2 and AS1 were synthesized via the Knoevenagel condensation of appropriate aldehydes with active methylene groups of the PDA acceptor unit and their chemical structures were confirmed by 1H- and 13C-NMR, mass spectrometry, and, where possible (AS2 only), by single crystal X-ray diffraction (XRD).
Knoevenagel condensation reaction of an aldehyde with active methylene group is an efficient way of generating a double bond between a π-bridge and acceptor functionality.
Herein, not only we are demonstrating the Knoevenagel condensation reaction of PDA acceptor unit but also the fabrication of solution-processable BHJ devices incorporating a fullerene acceptor (PC61BM) and either AS2 or AS1 as a donor component (Figure 1).
Both materials were based on the D–A–D module and the central acceptor moiety was directly linked to the terminal donor functionalities in order to create a conjugated structure.
The development of these target materials incorporates the use of two identical donor units (triphenylamine) on each side of the central core, resulting in symmetrical chromophores.
Insertion of a planar, conjugated functionality, such as thiophene in AS2, between the donor and acceptor components of a target material can provide greater absorption over visible light spectrum when compared with otherwise structurally similar compounds [38,48].
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations using the Gaussian 09 suite of programs [55] and the B3LYP/6-311 + G(d,p)//B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory indicated that the HOMO orbital densities of both AS2 and AS1 have a major distribution over the whole molecular backbone and the LUMO densities were delocalized through the central acceptor functionality and adjacent rings (Figure 5).
Inserted thiophene rings in case of AS2 can accommodate LUMO density with almost equal contribution as the central PDA, thus sparing the adjoining phenyl rings of the donor triphenylamine for an efficient segregation of HOMO and LUMO densities.
The energy level diagram advised that the band gaps of these materials are all in the range required of donor materials for BHJ devices.
After correlating the optoelectronic properties of AS2 and AS1 with those of the conventional PC61BM acceptor (see Figure 6), we screened their potency as donor materials (p-type) in solution-processable BHJ devices under simulated sunlight and monochromatic light illumination.
Taken as a whole, the insertion of thiophene functionality into the studied D–A–D structural motif incorporating PDA acceptor functionality resulted in significant enhancement of Jsc and PCE values by factors >2 and >3, respectively, thus promoting the use of a smaller conjugated functionality, such as thiophene, as an interesting structural concept for the design and development of highly efficient BHJ materials.
The discovery of potential materials, such as AS2, exhibiting promising optoelectronic and photovoltaic properties opens up the way to develop D–A–D modular small organic chromophores, with the use of PDA acceptor in particular, and paves the way for such materials to be used for other organic electronic applications.
In conclusion, we have demonstrated the first use of the PDA acceptor functionality in conjunction with a thiophene unit for the design and development of a BHJ chromophore, AS2, where PDA was used in the D–A–D modular arrangement.
(ii) As known, the state-of-the-art donor polymers often exhibited HOMO levels of 5.0 ~ 5.4 eV (see Figure 1b)18192021222324252627, and thereby the work function (WF) of the p-type EBL material should exceed 5.0 eV to form ohmic contact with the active layers.
Single perylene diimide (PDI) used as a non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) in organic solar cells (OSCs) is enticing because of its low cost and excellent stability.
The emergence of new and efficient non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has driven the development of organic solar cells [1–11].
In the last decade, PDI acceptors have evolved considerably [21–23], mainly by linking multiple PDI units to a crowded core, thus distorting the molecules and disrupting the strong self-aggregation tendency [24–29].
In particular, monomeric PDIs, which can be obtained in limited synthesis steps, and can be produced at significantly lower costs with greater stability than non-PDI type acceptors.
Therefore, the PCE of OSCs using PTCBI as acceptors lagged behind that of other NFAs-based OSCs [45–49] because PTCBI could not be used in high-efficiency bulk heterojunction OSCs due to its insolubility.
1a) were compared when PTB7-Th and chlorinated PTB7-Th(PDX), were selected as the donor materials (Fig.
Compared with pure film of one PDI-type acceptor (PDI-1), the electron mobility of PTCBI-type NFA in pure films were founded to be one order of magnitude higher.
c Schematic diagram of the energy levels of the donor and acceptor materials.
c Schematic diagram of the energy levels of the donor and acceptor materials.
The HOMO energy levels of the polymeric donor materials PTB7-Th and PDX (Fig.
2c were selected as the donor polymers.
The active layer was prepared by spin-coating the mixture of donor and acceptor with a weight ratio of 1:1 in chlorobenzene solvent containing 0.5 v% chloronaphthalene (CN) with a total concentration of 13 mg/mL.
The PCEs of NFAs with 3-tert-butylphenyl groups (PDI-2 and MAS-6) were slightly lower than that of NFAs with 4-tert-butylphenyl groups (PDI-1 and MAS-5) when PTB7-Th was used as the donor material (Fig.
When PTB7-Th was used as the donor material, OSCs based on PDI-1 exhibited a PCE of 3.36%, which was higher than that for OSCs based on MAS-5 (2.78%) and MAS-7 (3.02%) due to the much higher Voc.
Because the Voc could be easily improved by modifying the HOMO energy level of the donor materials [15, 58–61], the chlorinated PTB7-Th with deeper HOMO level, namely PDX, was used to improve the photovoltaic performance of PTCBI-type NFAs.
This may be due to the mismatched LUMO energy levels between the donor and acceptor.
However, the photovoltaic response intensity of OSCs with PDX as the donor decreased in the sequence of MAS-7, MAS-5 and PDI-1 as the acceptor.
When PDX was used as the donor material, the α-values of MAS-5 and MAS-7 based OSCs were 0.913 and 0.958, respectively (Fig.
When PDX was used as the donor material, the ηdiss values were calculated to be 63.66% and 71.83% for PDX:MAS-5- and PDX:MAS-7-based devices, respectively (Fig. 5d).
d Electron paramagnetic resonance spectra of different acceptor materials
d Electron paramagnetic resonance spectra of different acceptor materials
For the acceptor material, PDI-1 exhibited the roughest surface, the PTCBI-type small molecule exhibited a smoother surface, which facilitated the contact between the interfacial layer and the active layer.
Non-fullerene acceptors have recently attracted tremendous interest due to their potential as alternatives to fullerene derivatives in bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
Nevertheless, physical understanding of charge carrier generation and transfer mechanism that occurred at the interface between the non-fullerene molecule and donor polymer is still behind their enhanced photovoltaic performance.
Here we report examples of a non-planar perylene dimer (TP) as an electron acceptor and achieve a power conversion efficiency of 6.29% in a fullerene-free solar cell.
Femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy (fs-TAS) reveals that the fast exciton dissociation process from TP molecule to donor polymer contributes to additionally increasing current density, leading to stronger incident photon to current efficiency in the visible region.
Non-fullerene acceptors have advanced considerably over recent years and have achieved power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of over 18%, surpassing the photovoltaic performance of fullerene derivatives-based solar cells by designing the molecular structure of electron donating/accepting materials, optimizing phase separation morphology of photoactive layers, developing interfacial layers and designing a new type of device configurations [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11].
The high-performance non-fullerene acceptors possess a strong light absorption ability in the visible and near-infrared (NIR) regions and tuneable electronic properties to increase open circuit voltage (VOC) [12,13].
Accordingly, the molecular design, synthesis, and device testing of new concepts for non-fullerene acceptors have been in progress with enormous interest.
The introduction of the 2D- or 3D-twisted concept in the PDI-type electron acceptors has been investigated to weaken the strong intermolecular interaction of PDI units and avoid large crystalline aggregate domains.
Especially the charge carrier generation mechanism in electron-accepting materials, which is strongly related to exciton dissociation from electron acceptor to electron-donating materials, is less studied in fullerene-free bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
In this paper, we demonstrated that fullerene-free BHJ solar cells incorporating a TP as an electron acceptor achieved PCEs of 6.29%, with high JSC of 13.94 mA cm−2 and VOC of 0.84 V, compared the nanoscales morphologies of PffBT4T-2OD:TP blend films at different composition ratios, and correlated these with exciton generation, exciton dissociation, and charge carrier recombination dynamics.
We directly investigate the motion of charge carriers in PffBT4T-2OD:TP between the different phases, thus clearly establishing their interplay and determining their role in defining the photo-physics of free-charge generation in TP acceptors.
Importantly, we find that the ability of photo-generated electron–hole pairs to dissociate is already determined by the acceptor phase at ultrafast times, while the exciton generation and separation of the charge pairs in conjugated polymers can be identical in the blends of different ratios.
A ZnO film (40 nm) as an electron transport layer was prepared by spin-coating at 4000 rpm from a ZnO precursor (diethyl zinc) solution after oxygen plasma for 10 min at 100 W. Active layer solutions (donor concentration 10 mg mL−1) were prepared in chlorobenzene(CB):o-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB) (1:1 volume ratio) with 3 vol% of diiodooctane (DIO).
The BHJ cells using TP as an electron acceptor are based on the commercially available low bandgap conjugated polymer PffBT4T-2OD as an electron donor, as shown in Figure 1a, and fabricated with an inverted device configuration of glass/indium tin oxide (ITO)/zinc oxide (ZnO)/active layer/molybdenum trioxide (MoO3)/silver (Ag).
The energetic difference (0.33 eV) between LUMO levels of donor and acceptor materials in the photoactive layer indicates favorable energy offsets for charge separation between PffBT4T-2OD and TP molecules.
For devices based on the TP acceptor, we obtain device performance with the donor:acceptor blend layers at a different weight ratio of 1:1 and 1:2, spin-coated from an o-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB).
Figure 1d exhibits the UV-Visible absorption spectra and the external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra for each device at different acceptor composition ratios.
The important conclusion is that the photogenerated excitons from electron acceptors contribute greatly to the photocurrent in these solar cells.
For the PL data, excitation wavelengths of 600 nm for PffBT4T-2OD or 480 nm for TP were employed to achieve mainly selective excitation of the electron donor polymer or the electron acceptor small molecule, respectively.
TP acceptor incorporation in both blends also diminishes the intermolecular orientation of PffBT4T-2OD.
In a previous morphology study with respect to the blend, layers consisted of PffBT4T-2OD and TP molecules with different ratios of composition; we found that PffBT4T-2OD:TP blend layer exhibited high intermixing of the donor-acceptor phases due to the good miscibility of TP into the high crystalline conjugated polymers.
For the further understanding of exciton generation in the relatively pure donor or acceptor phase and exciton dissociation efficiency at the interface between PffBT4T-2OD and acceptor materials, fs-TAS measurement is employed to establish the dual light-harvesting mechanism and quantify the charge transfer and recombination dynamics in both blends [19,20,21].
In the optical properties, it was seen that the TP electron acceptors could complement low-bandgap electron donors for efficient harvesting of solar radiation in a broad wavelength region.
To measure the exciton lifetime by fs-TAS, an excitation of 500 nm (Figure S2a), corresponding to the dominant absorption of the acceptor molecule, was used to ensure selective excitation of the TP to study the charge generation dynamics from polymer excitons.
PffBT4T-2OD:TP blends (Figure S3) excited at 715 nm show the excited state absorption feature decays rapidly, compared to singlet exciton lifetime in the neat polymer film (359 ps), with time constants of 35 and 30 ps in 1:1 and 1:2 ratios, respectively, suggesting ultrafast electron transfer from photoexcited PffBT4T-2OD to the electron acceptor TP.
As shown in Figure 3a,b, the excitation at 500 nm leads to ground-state bleaching peaks at 550 nm for the TP acceptor and at both 625 and 700 nm for the PffBT4T-2OD donor, and a simultaneous broad excited state absorption feature in the range of 725–1300 nm at the delay time of 213 fs.
Due to the different load of acceptors in both blends, the different intensities of transient absorption in both blends at the delay time of 213 fs are observed at the ground state bleaching of 550 nm, while the ground state bleaching of PffBT4T-2OD at 625 and 700 nm show similar behavior.
The excitation of the TP acceptor at 500nm leads to a rise in the bleaching of PffBT4T-2OD at 700 nm, which is assigned to ultrafast hole transfer from photoexcited TP to PffBT4T-2OD.
Simultaneously, the bleaching signal of the TP acceptor at 560 nm continuously decreases with a time constant of 30 ps for both blends (Figure 4a).
The transient absorption spectra and dynamics presented that photoexcitation of either the donor or the acceptor contributes to the charge-carrier generation and charge transfer.
Ultrafast exciton generation from these acceptors in the blend film compensates for the photoexcitation of the donor, resulting in a strong photo response over the visible light region in EQE.
High PL quenching efficiency of both PffBT4T-2OD and TP emissions revealed efficient charge transfer at the electron-acceptor interface with a highly intermixed domain of PffBT4T-2OD and TP.
This efficient charge generation and transfer from TP acceptor give a significant effect to the current generation with high photoresponsivity up to 70% in visible regions.
Consequently, the TP molecule has morphological and photophysical potentials as a promising acceptor for efficient, fullerene-free BHJ solar cells.
Due to the inhomogeneous distribution of donor and acceptor materials within the photoactive layer of bulk heterojunction organic solar cells (OSCs), proper selection of a conventional or an inverted device structure is crucial for effective exciton dissociation and charge transportation.
Herein, we investigate the donor and acceptor distribution within the non-fullerene photoactive layer based on PBDTTT-ET:IEICO by time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) and scanning Kelvin probe microscopy (SKPM), indicating that more IEICO enriches on the surface of the photoactive layer while PBDTTT-ET distributes homogeneously within the photoactive layer.
Great efforts have been made in the development of new electron donors [4] and acceptors [5], the optimization of morphology [3], clean synthetic methods for the semiconductors production [6] and the engineering of device structure [7], resulting rapid promotion of the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of the OSCs.
Recently, non-fullerene small molecules and all-polymer (using a p-type donor polymer and an n-type acceptor polymer) solar cells have emerged.
Compared with fullerene derivatives, non-fullerene n-type small molecule and polymer acceptors can be flexibly designed to match the donor polymer in molecular weight, absorption spectra and energy level, allowing a better device performance [8,9,10,11].
Up to date, the PCE of non-fullerene acceptor based devices has exceeded 13% [5].
The photoactive layers in OSCs are commonly fabricated by casting the blend solution of electron donor and acceptor, which are dissolved in one or mixed solvents.
Ideally, the donor and acceptor will homogeneously distribute in both lateral and vertical direction through the active layer and they will not gather around one side to transport certain electrons or holes.
However, in reality, the distribution of the donor and acceptor within the photoactive layer is inhomogeneous due to the different surface energy and compatibility.
This inhomogeneous distribution can also be found in non-fullerene and all-polymer solar cells such as PBDTTT-C-T:PDI and P3HT:F8TBT blends [19,20], where donors gather at the bottom and electrons enrich on the surface.
Therefore, it is very important to understand the distribution of the donor and acceptor materials within the photoactive layer before choosing the conventional or inverted structure of OSCs.
Recently, non-fullerene acceptor based OSCs have attracted increasing attention due to their adjustable energy level, facile synthesis, good solubility and wider absorption in the visible region.
Herein, we investigate the vertical concentration distribution within the photoactive blend layer based on the non-fullerene acceptor IEICO and polymer donor PBDTTT-ET by time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) and scanning Kelvin probe microscopy (SKPM).
We find that the electron acceptor IEICO has lower concentration near the surface while the donor PBDTTT-ET has higher concentration near the surface.
To clarify the donor and acceptor distribution within the photoactive layer, time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) measurements were conducted.
Comparing the molecular structure of PBDTTT-ET with IEICO, nitrogen (N) is the characteristic element of acceptor IEICO, but there is no specific element for donor PBDTTT-ET.
To more directly illustrate the donor and acceptor distribution within the photoactive layer, the distribution is expressed as a percentage, as shown in Figure 1e.
To further confirm the inhomogeneous distribution of donor and acceptor within the photoactive layer could greatly impact on the device performance with different structure, inverted (Figure S2a) and conventional (Figure S2b) OSCs are designed and fabricated.
MoO3 can form an ohmic contact with the PBDTTT-ET donor material due to its high work function of 5.4 eV [33].
TOF-SIMS results indicate that the acceptor IEICO enriches on the top surface and the donor PBDTTT-ET uniformly distributes throughout the photoactive layer.
Our findings indicate that, based on the inhomogeneous distribution of donor and acceptor materials within the photoactive layer, properly selection the conventional or inverted device structure is crucial for effective exciton dissociation and charge transportation.
Considering the increased demand and potential of photovoltaic devices in clean, renewable electrical and hi-tech applications, non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) chromophores have gained significant attention.
The geometry, electrical and optical properties of the designed acceptor molecules were compared with reported IBR architecture.
Additionally, frontier molecular orbital findings revealed an excellent transfer of charge from donor to terminal acceptors and the central indenoindene-core was considered responsible for the charge transfer.
Among all the chromophores, IBRD3 manifested the lowest energy gap (2.126 eV) with higher λmax at 734 and 745 nm in gaseous phase and solvent (chloroform), respectively due to the strong electron-withdrawing effect of five end-capped cyano groups present on the terminal acceptor.
The transition density matrix map revealed an excellent charge transfer from donor to terminal acceptors.
Further, to investigate the charge transfer and open-circuit voltage (Voc), PBDBT donor polymer was blended with acceptor chromophores, and a significant Voc (0.696–1.854 V) was observed.
This investigation indicates that these designed chromophores can serve as excellent electron acceptor molecules in organic solar cells (OSCs) that make them attractive candidates for the development of scalable and inexpensive optoelectronic devices.
OSCs are generally bulk heterojunction (BHJ) units where absorption layers blend donor and acceptor molecules.
But fullerene acceptors suffer from the inability to harvest light as their absorption spectrum is poorly matched to the solar spectrum.
This has given a way to research into non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), particularly small molecules offering electron affinity tuneability and better-suited absorption spectra to capture sunlight6,7,12–15.
Fused ring electron acceptors (FREAs) is an emergent class that absorbs visible to near-infrared (NIR) very well6,12,18–24 and possess better PCE values25, high thermic constancy26, and good stability in comparison to other NFAs27.
In the last decade, there has been a move to design better photovoltaic materials and fine-tune their optoelectronic characteristics utilizing various FREAs, such as star molecule28, linear geometric molecules29 and X-shaped donor molecule30 etc.
FREAs are usually A-D-A type chromophores where donor forms the central core, while electron acceptors act as pendants where they play the role of side end-capped groups which can be modified to tune the optoelectronic properties of investigated compounds13–15,31–34.
with an indenoindene core35 and 3-ethylrodanine end-capped acceptor.
Above mentioned properties of designed compounds have been compared with IBR to evaluate the performance of end-capped acceptor units.
Subsequently, the charge transformation is significantly observed from donor to acceptor in PBDBT:IBRD3 and PBDBT:IBRD6 at \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\omega$$\end{document}ω B97XD/3-21G functional (see Figure S2) as was reported at M06/3-21G level.
In current investigation, IBR, used as a reference molecule, consists on an indenoindene-core that behaves as a donor (D) unit and flanked by A1 (4 methylbenzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole) and A2 (3-ethyl-5-methylene-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one).
We substituted the terminal acceptor species (A2) of the IBR with various reported acceptors to design IBRD1–IBRD6 species (Fig.
2) and inspected the acceptor units influence on optoelectronic and photophysical properties of IBR.
The energy gap shows a reduction when the terminal acceptor of IBR is modified in IBRD1, where the combined effect of enlargement in resonance along with electron-withdrawing effect of cyano (–CN) group stabilized the chromophore by lowering its bandgap.
Contrarily, a larger value of Eg is exhibited by IBRD6, 2.477 eV, as chloro group on terminal acceptor replaced with fluoro (–F) group.
In IBR the charge density is located all over the chromophore but significantly concentrated over the central indenoindene-core (donor) in HOMO while end-capped acceptor units in LUMO.
Similarly, in all designed molecules charge density for HOMO exists over donor (indenoindene) unit and A1 while in LUMO on the terminal acceptors moieties.
Herein, to investigate DOS, IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6 are divided into three fragments, i.e., A1, donor, and A2.
In DOS spectra, the scattering pattern of the donor is manifested by a blue line, whereas the green and red lines exhibit the scattering pattern of acceptor-1 and acceptor-2, respectively (Fig. 4).
Similarly, acceptor-2 contributes 6.7%, 7.4%, 7.5%, 6.7%, 6.2% and 6.3% to HOMO, while 61.4%, 73.0%, 76.7%, 66.1%, 69.4% and 65.5% to LUMO for IBRD1–IBRD6, respectively.
In the same way, donor contributes 74.0%, 74.9%, 74.9%, 74.5%, 75.2% and 75.0% to HOMO whereas 7.1%, 4.9%, 4.4%, 6.1, 5.2, and 6.2% to LUMO for IBRD1–IBRD6, accordingly.
DOS speculates that various electron-withdrawing acceptor groups are accountable for different scattering patterns of electron densities.
Figure 4 shows that in all chromophores for HOMO the highest peak for charge density is observed at the donor part in the range of − 6 to − 6.5 eV while in LUMO, it appears in A2 units at − 4 eV.
Hence, these energy ranges are significant and demonstrated that donor and terminal acceptor moieties are mainly responsible to arise HOMO and LUMO, respectively in designed chromophores which also supported the FMO investigation.
Donor–acceptor systems with low energy offset and high photoluminescence show improved performance for high-open-circuit-voltage OSCs58,59.
Among all the derivatives of IBR, the lower value of λmax is examined in IBRD1 which then increased in IBRD6 as the introduction of the fluoro group with cyano group on the terminal acceptor unit.These groups enhance the electron-withdrawing effect in IBRD6, which reduced the energy gap between orbitals and hence, lowers excitation energy with a broader absorption band is examined.
Among all derivatives, IBRD3 shows the maximum absorption due to the presence of powerful electron-withdrawing five cyano groups on the terminal acceptor.
It is therefore evident that structural modeling of the parent molecule with strong acceptor units, chromophores with reduced bandgap and broader absorption spectra can lead to the development of appealing OSCs materials.Figure 5Absorption spectra of IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6 in the gaseous phase (left) and chloroform solvent (right) made by using origin 8.5 version (https://www.originlab.com/).
Therefore, the results from Table 4 indicated that higher rate of electron mobility is presented between donor and acceptor units in IBRD2 and IBRD3 among all the studied compounds as they have the lower value of λe.
Overall, a higher value of λh and lower λe is found in all designed IBRD1–IBRD6 molecules, this making them excellent candidates for electron mobility and appealing acceptors for OSCs.
Previosuly, heterojunction interface models with nonfullerene acceptors show better light harvesting capability and intramolecular charge transfer properties along with lower burn-in degradation67,68.Table 4Reorganization energies (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{e}$$\end{document}λe and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{h}$$\end{document}λh) of IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6.Compounds\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{\text{e}}}$$\end{document}λe (eV)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{h}$$\end{document}λh (eV)IBR0.008820.009662IBRD10.0106510.011942IBRD20.007440.012576IBRD30.0054210.011913IBRD40.0099760.012235IBRD50.0104890.011968IBRD60.0109710.012327All out put files of entitled compounds were accomplished by Gaussian 09 version D.01 (https://gaussian.com/g09citation/).
In an excited state, it supports to explain donor–acceptor unit interactions, electronic excitation, hole-electron localization and delocalization56,69.
∆E is the difference of LUMOs of acceptor and donor and it should be greater than 0.3 eV, for effective exciton split and charge transfer at DA interface69,70.
Open circuit voltage has an inverse relation with the Eg of donor and acceptor compounds, respectively75,76.
A higher value of Voc can be attained if the LUMO level of the acceptor has a higher energy value and the HOMO of the donor have a lower value77.
(4).4\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$ {\text{V}}_{{{\text{oc}}}} = \left( {\left| {{\text{E}}_{{{\text{HOMO}}}}^{{\text{D}}} } \right| - \left| {{\text{E}}_{{{\text{LUMO}}}}^{{\text{A}}} } \right|} \right) - 0.3 $$\end{document}Voc=EHOMOD-ELUMOA-0.3where E is the energy and 0.3 is a constant observed from simplifying voltage drop factors60,80 The main idea of Voc is to align the LUMO of designed molecules, including IBR, with the HOMO of a well-acknowledged PBDBT donor.
The results obtained are tabulated in Table 6.Table 6Computed Voc values and energy gap values of IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6.CompoundsIBRIBRD1IBRD2IBRD3IBRD4IBRD5IBRD6Voc1.8541.5990.940.6961.3871.3621.437∆E2.1541.8991.240.9961.6871.6621.95∆E = band gap between the orbitals (HOMO/LUMO) of donor/acceptor complexes.
∆E = band gap between the orbitals (HOMO/LUMO) of donor/acceptor complexes.
The band gap between the orbitals (HOMO/LUMO) of donor/acceptor complexes is found to be 2.154, 1.899, 1.24, 0.996, 1.687, 1.662, and 1.95 eV, respectively, for IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6 (Table 6; Fig. 7).
An acceptor species with lower lying LUMO causes greater Voc.
A low lying LUMO orbital means that the electron can easily be transferred between the donors to the acceptor unit.
In addition, the energy gap between the HOMO and LUMO is also important for the transition of electrons between the donors to the acceptor unit and enhances the PCE.
The above discussion concludes that all designed acceptor molecules are suitable candidates for use in OSCs due to better optoelectronic properties when aligned with the HOMOPBDBT.Figure 7The open-circuit voltage (Voc) of IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6 with respect to the donor PBDBT.
The open-circuit voltage (Voc) of IBR and IBRD1–IBRD6 with respect to the donor PBDBT.
To understand the phenomena of charge transfer between our designed acceptor chromophores, we utilized a well-known donor PBDBT polymer.
8a and S2(a) for the best transfer of charge; we put our designed chromophores parallel to the donor polymer (Fig.
8b that the charge density for HOMO is located over the donor PBDBT polymer while LUMO is located over the IBRD3, which indicates that an excellent transfer of electronic cloud from donor PBDBT polymer towards IBRD3 chromophore.
This excellent charge transfer revealed that our designed chromophores are suitable non-fullerene solar cell acceptors, which may play a significant role in designing optoelectronic devices.Figure 8Optimized geometry of PBDBT:IBRD3 charge transfer between (a) \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{HOMO}}_{{{\text{PBDBT}}}}$$\end{document}HOMOPBDBT and (b) \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\text{LUMO}}_{{{\text{IBRD}}3}}$$\end{document}LUMOIBRD3.
These IBRD1–IBRD6 chromophores were obtained by the structural modification of terminal acceptor units.
FMO, DOS and TDM findings reveals that an effective charge is transfer from donor moiety to acceptor units.
These photovoltaic properties suggest that all the newly designed molecules were excellent acceptor candidates for obtaining high PCE in organic solar cells.
Light-driven fuel production from CO2 is currently hampered by sacrificial electron donor utilization and low efficiency, selectivity, and scalability.
Nevertheless, a variety of TiO2 sheets have been applied to the photodegradation of organic pollutants.48 H2 generation with a triethanolamine electron donor was also reported with PC sheets prepared by drop-casting mesoporous CNx coupled with a Pt co-catalyst onto stainless steel with a Nafion binder.49 Recently, we have utilized a similar drop-casting technique to prepare CNx|Ni2P sheets of up to 5 × 5 cm2 (Figure 1d).
We measured the picoseconds (ps) transient dynamics of photoexcitations in blends of regio-regular poly(3-hexyl-thiophene) (RR-P3HT) (donors-D) and fullerene (PCBM) (acceptor-A) in an unprecedented broad spectral range of 0.25 to 2.5 eV.
The two organic semiconductors in the blend, dubbed donor (D-) and acceptor (A-), respectively, are cast from solution mixtures to form thin films with nanoscale domains of relatively pristine materials and large donor-acceptor (D-A) interface area.
Initially, it was proposed that the photogenerated “donor exciton” diffusion to the interface is followed by ultrafast dissociation of the exciton without any intermediate state [25].
Importantly these CT exciton can be directly generated using below gap photoexcitation, without involving the first process of intrachain exciton generation in the donor domains [8,9,27,29,30,31].
The interaction of donor and acceptor molecules creates a series of charge transfer state.
studied in detail the higher energy level (hot) CT states in a series of donor and acceptor materials, and found that these states are delocalized and help in charge separation [30].
This review paper summarizes the early stages of the charge photogeneration process in D-A blend of polymer regio-regular (RR-)(3 hexyl thiophene) (P3HT; see Figure 1b) and two fullerene acceptor molecules 6,6-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) and Indene C60 trisadduct (ICTA); Figure 1b using the pump/probe transient photomodulation spectroscopy in a broad spectral range.
(color on line) (a) Schematic diagram of nano-domains of polymer (donor) and fullerene (acceptor) depicted in bulk heterojunction organic photovoltaic blend; (b) Schematic molecular structures of the Regio Regular (RR)-P3HT polymer, 6,6-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), Indene C60 trisadduct (ICTA) and Galvinoxyl radical.
Finally, we studied a new fullerene acceptor molecule, namely Indene C60 trisadduct (ICTA) (Figure 1b) of which LUMO level is higher than that in PCBM, which ultimately yields larger open circuit voltage (~1.08 V) for RR-P3HT/ICTA blend compared to the value of 0.6 V for RR-P3HT/PCBM blend.
Since the majority of primary photoexcitations are created in the donor material, it is advisable to first analyze ΔT(t)/T spectra of pristine polymer.
A detailed study of PA1 decay kinetics for the donor polymer in the RR-P3HT/PCBM blend system was recently published [8] This model yields the following time dependent surviving exciton density N(t) in the polymer domains; N(t)/N(0) = exp(−t/τ0)[m1 + m2(C1t1/2 – C2t1/3 + C3t1/6)] (1) where τ0 = 70 ps is the natural exciton lifetime in RR-P3HT that is obtained from the PA dynamics of Figure 2b; m1 and m2 are fitting parameters; and the C constants are given by the relations: C1 = 0.2 u−3, C2 = 0.66 u−2 and C3 = 0.54/u, where u = D/2R0 is the parameter ratio of the grain size, D to twice the FRET radius, R0, which was measured before to be between 3 and 9 nm [40].
This shows that there exists a mechanism where thermalized CT excitons at the D-A interfaces are able to separate into free polarons in the donor and acceptor domains, regardless of the initial ħω(pump) [30].
In photovoltaic applications, the electron donor-acceptor mechanism is currently the basis of the most efficient organic solar cells.
This mechanism takes advantage of the bulk heterojunction architecture to widen the interface between donor and acceptor, maximise the probability of charge pair separation and limit the charge recombination process.
Based on these considerations, we hypothesised that the electron donor-acceptor interface may not represent the best possible strategy to drive neuronal activity.
In this work, we demonstrate that a simpler active layer, constituted by the only donor component (P3HT), can efficiently stimulate primary neurons upon illumination and restore light sensitivity in explanted degenerate retinas.
To evaluate the efficiency of the single donor component active layer in depolarising neurons, we compared the extent of neuronal depolarisation to that obtained with the P3HT-PCBM blend active layer by performing current-clamp experiments in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 μM), a blocker of voltage-dependent Na+ channels that inhibits action potential generation (Supplementary Fig.
X-ray ptychography resolves to better than 100 nm the phase-segregated domains of electron donor and electron acceptor materials over a large field of view within the active layers.
Solar cells based on conjugated polymers acting as electron donor materials blended with fullerene-based electron acceptor material have achieved up to 11.7% power conversion efficiency (PCE) using a single-layer bulk heterojunction (BHJ) device structure [2].
Consequently, a donor and acceptor percolating network is formed, yielding a large interfacial BHJ promoting charge separation.
Gratifyingly, the domains of electron donor and electron acceptor materials are clearly resolved.
Such large domains are not suitable for the achievement of higher power-conversion efficiency solar cells because of the reduced interfacial area between the donor and acceptor domains, however the merit of the experiments reported here is to demonstrate that these domains can indeed be studied using X-ray ptychography.
The reconstructed high resolution images of phase segregated domains of electron donor and electron acceptor materials in the P3HT/PCBM active layer demonstrate that X-ray ptychography already is a powerful technique for imaging low contrast nanostructured organic materials, and with future experimental improvements, routine in situ quantitative imaging can be expected.
Electron donor material P3HT (M ~ 105 g/mol) and electron acceptor PCBM (M ~ 910.9 g/mol) were purchased from Rieke Metals Inc. and Solenne BV, respectively, and used as received.
A novel ladderlike fused-ring donor, dithienocyclopentacarbazole (DTCC) derivative, is used to design and synthesize three novel donor–acceptor−π–acceptor-type organic dyes (C1–C3) via facile direct arylation reactions, in which the DTCC derivative substituted by four p-octyloxyphenyl groups is served as the electron donor and the carboxylic acid group is used as the electron acceptor or anchoring group.
To fine-tune the optical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic properties of the three dyes, various auxiliary acceptors, including benzo[2,1,3]thiadiazole (BT), 5,6-difluorobenzo[2,1,3]thiadiazole (DFBT), and pyridal[2,1,3]thiadiazole (PT), are incorporated into the dye backbones.
The results indicate that all of the three dyes exhibit strong light-capturing ability in the visible region and obtain relatively high molar extinction coefficients (>31 000 M–1 cm–1) due to their strong charge transfer (CT) from donor to acceptor.
As far as molecular design is concerned, current mainstream strategy for metal-free organic dyes is to construct donor−π–acceptor (D−π–A) or donor–acceptor−π–acceptor (D–A−π–A) configuration to ensure efficient light capture and strong intramolecular charge transfer.28−32 Compared to D−π–A dyes, the properties of D–A−π–A-type organic dyes can be readily adjusted by inserting an auxiliary acceptor between the D and π units, which thereby endows them with more flexible photoelectric properties.
Moreover, this delicate molecular modification can not only fine-tune energy-level structure and light response region but also facilitate electron transportation from D unit to anchor group.24 On the basis of this strategy, current research interest for ideal D–A−π–A-type organic dyes mainly focuses on the modulation of π-conjugated aromatic donors,33−37 π-bridges,38−40 anchoring groups,41 auxiliary acceptors,42,43 as well as solubilizing side chains.44−46 Among them, the exploitation of novel π-conjugated aromatic donors is considered to be the most versatile approach to develop large numbers of high-performance organic dyes.
Hence, further development of novel aromatic donors for high-performance D–A−π–A-type organic dyes is worthy of being studied.
Due to their highly electron-donating nature and tunable modular structure, dithienocyclopentacarbazole (DTCC) derivatives have been widely utilized as the donor unit to develop a set of organic/polymeric semiconductors for organic solar cells (OSCs) and organic field-effect transistors (OFETs).47−50 Since the first report on DTCC-based polymeric semiconductor by Hsu et al.,47 a series of DTCC-like aromatic fused rings and their organic/polymeric semiconductors have sprung up subsequently.50 Traditionally, they have been used as p-type semiconductors in OFETs and fullerene-based OSCs, which afford 0.001–0.14 cm2 V–1 s–1 hole mobilities and 3.7–4.6% PCE values.47,48 Our recent work reveals that, by embedding two strongly electron-deficient 3-(dicyanomethylene)indian-1-one terminal groups, the first n-type DTCC-based organic semiconductor (DTCC-IC) has been successfully developed for nonfullerene OSCs,51 which achieves an encouraging PCE of 6.0% and a high electron mobility of 2.17 × 10–3 cm2 V–1 s–1.
On the basis of the discussion mentioned above, we report the design, synthesis, and structural characterization of three D–A−π–A-type DTCC-based organic dyes (C1–C3, Figure 1), in which the ladder-type DTCC derivative substituted by four p-octyloxyphenyl groups is used as the donor unit and the carboxylic acid group is used as the electron acceptor.
To manipulate the optical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic properties of the three dyes, we use different electron-withdrawing units as the auxiliary acceptors in the three dyes, including benzo[2,1,3]thiadiazole (BT), 5,6-difluorobenzo[2,1,3]thiadiazole (DFBT), and pyridal[2,1,3]thiadiazole (PT).
After that, the DTCC donor was translated to the D–A−π–A-type intermediates (12–14) via direct arylation reactions (DARs) in moderate yields of ca.
It should be mentioned that this versatile DAR approach makes our synthetic procedures more environmentally friendly and facile,52−54 which enables direct coupling reaction between the DTCC donors and the aryl halides (9–11).
The former bands can be attributed to a localized aromatic π–π* transitions, whereas the latter ones can be assigned to a charge transfer (CT) between DTCC donor and electron acceptor.55−57 The CT peaks and the corresponding molar extinction coefficients (ε) are observed at 516 nm (ε = 3.46 × 104 M–1 cm–1) for C1, 509 nm (ε = 3.89 × 104 M–1 cm–1) for C2, and 568 nm (ε = 3.14 × 104 M–1 cm–1) for C3 (Figure S1).
The results indicate that the incorporation of DTCC donor into the dye backbone can achieve high ε values (>3.14 × 104 M–1 cm–1).
To investigate the influence of various auxiliary acceptors on geometric configuration and electron distribution, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations at the B3LYP/6-31G* level.
This 3D backbone feature is believed to suppress dye aggregation on TiO2 films and thus give high photovoltaic efficiency.11 For the three dyes, relatively small twisted dihedral angles (<3.4°) can be observed between the DTCC unit and the adjacent auxiliary acceptors.
Moreover, as shown in Figure 3, for the HOMO orbitals of the three dyes C1–C3, the electrons mainly distribute on the DTCC donors and also partly extend to the auxiliary acceptors, whereas the LUMO orbitals dominantly delocalize over the acceptor and the π-linker groups.
In summary, for the first time, a ladderlike fused-ring donor (dithienocyclopentacarbazole (DTCC) derivative) has been used to design and synthesize three novel D–A−π–A-type organic dyes (C1, C2, and C3) via facile direct arylation reactions.
We have demonstrated that the use of auxiliary acceptors (BT, DFBT, and PT) can effectively manipulate the optical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic performances of the three dyes.
Our findings indicate that the ladderlike DTCC derivative donors have great potential to design broad novel organic dyes for high-performance DSSCs.
Finally, we show that OPV active-layer thin films made from blends of 2 with poly-3-hexylthiophene (P3HT), when studied using time-resolved microwave photoconductivity, exhibit photoinduced charge-carrier yield × mobility figures of merit that rival the OPV active-layer standard blend of PCBM with P3HT, which demonstrates the potential of 2 as an electron acceptor in OPV and other optoelectronic devices.
Therefore, 2 is a stronger electron acceptor (in the gas phase) than C60 and PCBM by 0.12(1) and 0.18(1) eV, respectively.
The significance of this is that the aggregation behavior of OPV acceptor fullerenes in the solid state, especially the number of electronically coupled nearest neighbors and their three-dimensional arrangement, is widely believed to be among the key factors that determine charge transport properties in the fullerene domains in Type II heterojunction solar cells.89–100
The denser packing of 2 relative to PCBM and the nearly-equal E 1/2(0/–) values for 2 and C60 suggested that 2 might be an efficacious electron acceptor in OPV bulk heterojunction thin films.
The latter observation is indicative of efficient free-charge-carrier generation in the rr-P3HT/2 blend, a combination of a high φ value as well as a large ∑μ contribution due to electron mobility in domains of 2 within the bulk heterojunction thin film, as previously observed for rr-P3HT blends with other high-performance OPV acceptors.95,102,103
The signals are longer lived than for the neat donor polymer, which is normally attributed to high electron mobility in the fullerene phase.102 Taken together, the TRMC results indicate that 2 is a promising acceptor for OPV.
Its higher electron affinity relative to PCBM suggests that it may be better to blend 2 with “push–pull” low-bandgap donor polymers with HOMO and LUMO energies deeper than P3HT in order to offset open-circuit-voltage losses,104 and the perfluorinated nature of its substituent suggests and it may be better to blend 2 with fluorinated donor polymers.
In recent years, the development of materials with controlled surface properties and topographies has opened new avenues to manipulate cell adhesion and ultimately influence cell behaviour.1–3 In this context, the application of conjugated polymers, such as donor–acceptor conjugated molecules, has shown promise in achieving tuneable surface properties,4,5 but these donor–acceptor polymers have primarily been used for creating devices, such as organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs), rather than used as biomaterials for regenerative medicine applications.
Next, we utilized a commonly reported p-type dopant for organic semiconducting donor acceptor polymers, anhydrous FeCl328,29 (Fig.
The exceptional light harvesting and durability characteristics of these photosensitizers are attributed to the transition (MLCT) through which the photoelectric charge moves to the TiO2 faster than the electron recombination with the oxidized dye molecule, instead of moving through the circuit.18–20 In addition, metal-free organic sensitizers are the most favored candidates compared to Ru(ii)-based sensitizers because they have many advantages, such as a flexible model, cost-effective synthesis and superior molar extinction coefficients accompanied with intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from an electron-rich donor to an anchoring unit through a π-spacer unit upon light absorption.21–24 In addition to the requirement to improve DSSC performance, co-sensitization is one of the most promising approaches for improving efficiency in DSSCs using a combination of organic sensitizers (visible absorption) and Ru(ii) (NIR-absorbing) complexes in order to obtain a wide spectral response in the visible light region and thus improve the absorption of light.1,25 Actually, co-sensitization of DSSCs significantly increases the performance of photovoltaics compared to a single sensitizer.26–28 This is attributed to preventing the aggregation of the dye and minimizing charge recombination, increasing the efficient accumulation of both types of dyes on the TiO2 surface owing to the difference in the molecular sizes of the dyes, thus facilitating the harvesting of a maximum number of incident photons by the cell.29 Different organic push–pull sensitizers have been used in DSSCs as effective co-sensitizers for Ru(ii) complexes compared to individual dye cells; for example, a black dye increased photocurrent efficiency (PCE) by up to 11% when co-sensitized with D131 color dye,30 N3 dye when co-sensitized with simple aniline-based D–A architecture enhanced the PCE by up to 7.02%,1 Ru sensitizer (SPS-01) co-sensitization with a metal-free dye containing thienylfluorene (JD1) increased the PCE by 8.30% (ref.
Herein, we report the synthesis and characterization of four new organic sensitizers with A–π–D–π–A architecture carrying different acceptor units, viz.
1-phenyl-pyrazol-5-one-3-carboxylic acid IMA1, cyanoacetic acid IMA2, 2-methylquinoline-6-carboxylic acid IMA3, rhodamine-3-acetic acid IMA4 and a new ruthenium(ii)-based complex (IMA5) incorporating a bipyridine linked with two branches of a TPA-EDOT molecular motif as the electron donor, and 2,2′-bipyridinyl-4,4′-dicarboxylic acid was used as the main anchoring ligand, as shown in Fig.
Moreover, the bathochromic shift bands in the region of 350–430 nm can be accredited to intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from the donor (DBT) to the anchoring moiety via the conjugated phenyl segment, which is critical to absorbing lower energy light with reasonable molar absorptivity.36 Although the maximum wavelengths (ICT) for photosensitizers IMA1 (λmax = 411 nm) and IMA4 (λmax = 383 nm) are bathochromically shifted compared to those of IMA2 (λmax = 347 nm) and IMA3 (λmax = 339 nm), the molar extinction coefficients of 0.40 × 105 M−1 cm−1 and 0.29 × 105 M−1 cm−1 for IMA1 and IMA4, respectively, are extremely low compared to those for IMA2 (εmax = 0.85 × 105 M−1 cm−1) and IMA3 (εmax = 0.95 × 105 M−1 cm−1).
The higher extinction coefficient of the IMA5 complex in the visible region is attributed to the presence of the strong electron donor part, which comprises TPA-EDOT and is directly connected to the bipyridine to form a ligand that contains extended π conjugation, and the directionality of the excited state by perfect tuning of the ligand LUMO energy level with the donating groups.
In the case of the metal-free organic sensitizers IMA1–4, the HOMOs are accumulated on the DBT moiety, which represents the donor part, while the LUMOs are distributed on the acceptor parts, namely the pyrazole carboxylic acid, cyanoacetic acid, quinoline carboxylic acid and thiazole carboxylic acid moieties.
On the other hand, in the Ru(ii) sensitizer IMA-5 the HOMO was located on the donor (TPA-EDOT) moiety and the LUMO on the acceptor part, which represents dibipyridine dicarboxylic acid.
The short exciton diffusion length associated with most classical organic semiconductors used in organic photovoltaics (5-20 nm) imposes severe limits on the maximum size of the donor and acceptor domains within the photoactive layer of the cell.
Here, we measure the exciton diffusion length in a wide range of nonfullerene acceptor molecules using two different experimental techniques based on photocurrent and ultrafast spectroscopy measurements.
The acceptors exhibit balanced ambipolar charge transport and surprisingly long exciton diffusion lengths in the range of 20 to 47 nm.
With the aid of quantum-chemical calculations, we are able to rationalize the exciton dynamics and draw basic chemical design rules, particularly on the importance of the end-group substituent on the crystal packing of nonfullerene acceptors.The short-range diffusion length of organic semiconductors severely limits exciton harvesting and charge generation in organic bulk heterojunction solar cells.
Here, the authors report exciton diffusion length in the range of 20 to 47 nm for a wide range of non-fullerene acceptors molecules.
After a few years of stagnation in terms of efficiency, organic solar cells (OSCs) are back in the spotlight thanks to the advent of new non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) molecules1–3.
To efficiently generate free charges, two semiconductors with suitable energetics, an electron donor and electron acceptor are intermixed, forming a so-called bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) cell.
One of the prerequisites for efficient exciton harvesting is the fast exciton diffusion to the donor–acceptor interface, where it dissociates into free charges.
The diffusion constant and the exciton lifetime set the optimal size of the donor and acceptor domains within the BHJ.
Up until now, most of the work on exciton diffusion length in OSCs has been focused on electron–donor (p-type) materials20 with very few reports on molecular NFAs21,22.
Recent work has shown that fused-ring acceptors such as indacenodithiophene end-capped with 1,1-dicyanomethylene-3-indanone (IDIC) exhibit long exciton diffusion length with a diffusion constant of at least 0.02 cm2/s21.
We focus on best-in-class acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) NFAs comprising different end-groups ranging from methyl (IT-M) to chlorine (IT-2Cl) and fluorine (IT-4F), including the current PCE record holder Y6.
This value is >4 times higher than the ≈10 nm reported for the prototypical fullerene-based acceptor PC71BM.
Figure 1a illustrates the chemical structures of the acceptor materials studied, while Fig.
Figure 1c depicts the ionization energies (IE) of the acceptors and the carrier-transport layers as determined by photoelectron spectroscopy in air (PESA).Fig.
1Molecular structure, absorption, and energy levels of the organic acceptors studied.a Chemical structure of the acceptors investigated in this study.
b Absorption spectra of the acceptor molecules studied.
Molecular structure, absorption, and energy levels of the organic acceptors studied.
a Chemical structure of the acceptors investigated in this study.
b Absorption spectra of the acceptor molecules studied.
Exciton diffusion length calculation using bilayer CuSCN/acceptor devices
Figure 2a illustrates the structure and energy diagram of a planar CuSCN/acceptor heterojunction solar cell used to study the LD.
2Device performance and EQE spectra of the bilayer CuSCN/acceptor devices.a Schematic of the device architecture and the cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of a CuSCN/acceptor bilayer solar cell.
Device performance and EQE spectra of the bilayer CuSCN/acceptor devices.
a Schematic of the device architecture and the cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of a CuSCN/acceptor bilayer solar cell.
To estimate LD within the acceptor layer, we used a similar method to that described by Siegmund et al.35.
The external quantum efficiency (EQE) of the bilayer cells is measured as a function of acceptor thickness, and then the measured photocurrent is modeled using the exciton diffusion equation:1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\frac{{\partial n}}{{\partial t}} = D\frac{{\partial ^2n}}{{\partial x^2}} + G\left( {x,t} \right) - k_{{\mathrm{PL}}}n - k_{{\mathrm{FRET}}}n - \alpha n^2$$\end{document}∂n∂t=D∂2n∂x2+Gx,t−kPLn−kFRETn−αn2where n is the singlet exciton density at position x in the absorber film, D is the diffusion coefficient, G(x, t) is the time-dependent exciton generation profile, kPL is the radiative decay rate in absence of quencher sites, α is an exciton–exciton annihilation rate constant, and kFRET denotes the rate of Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) in the presence of a neighboring material.
To accurately measure LD of the NFAs with the bilayer cell, it is important to ensure that: (i) the exciton dissociation happens only at a well-defined quencher–acceptor interface36; (ii) the generation of exciton originates only from the acceptor; and (iii) the photocurrent is not limited by the transport properties of the NFA layer.
2c) reveal that charge generation occurs across the entire acceptors’ absorption spectra range while CuSCN does not contribute to the generation of excitons (Fig.
The requirement (iii) is also fulfilled as the performance of the bilayer solar cells is not limited by the charge transport of the acceptor materials as evident from the sufficiently high and ambipolar mobility values extracted using thin-film transistors (TFTs) (Supplementary Fig.
CuSCN is particularly suitable as an exciton quencher for this type of measurement, since FRET from CuSCN to the acceptor layer is negligible due to the very low fluorescence of CuSCN and the small overlap of its absorption with the acceptors’ emission (Supplementary Fig. 4).
As a result, the dominant exciton harvesting mechanism within the acceptor layer is exciton diffusion.
6–14 for EQE at different λexc) reaches a maximum value for acceptor thickness between 60 and 100 nm, which indicates long LD values.
Incorporating electron-deficient elements like F or Cl into the end-capping groups, such as in the case of IT-2Cl and IT-4F acceptors, results in an increase of LD to 40–45 nm.
For the remaining acceptors, the LD values are summarized in Table 1.
For the Y6 acceptor, with recently reported PCE values reaching in the range 15–18.2% when blended with best-in-class donor polymers3,5–7,9,10, we calculate an LD value of 35 nm.
The measurement requires two sets of films prepared on a quartz glass substrate: (1) neat acceptor film to obtain the α value and (2) dilute acceptor in polystyrene film to extract κ (or intrinsic exciton lifetime, τ = 1/κ).
In the case of the small molecule donor DTS(FBTTh2)2, R has been measured to be around 1.1 nm44.
The latter has also been assumed to be equal to the intermolecular distance which can be obtained from x-ray diffraction studies (~1 nm for DPP-based small molecule donors45) or d100 spacing obtained from GIWAXS of neat films (1.7–1.9 nm for BTR and BQR small molecule donors46).
4Exciton diffusion lengths of various NFAs estimated from singlet-singlet annihilation measurements and non-exhaustive comparison of diffusion length of organic donor and acceptor materials.Singlet–singlet exciton annihilation decay in neat films of: a IT-M (excitation wavelength: 700 nm), b ITIC (700 nm), c IT-2Cl (700 nm), d IT-4F (750 nm), and e Y6 (700 nm).
f Comparison of diffusion lengths reported from 2005 onwards for various types of donor and acceptor materials relevant to organic photovoltaics.
Exciton diffusion lengths of various NFAs estimated from singlet-singlet annihilation measurements and non-exhaustive comparison of diffusion length of organic donor and acceptor materials.
f Comparison of diffusion lengths reported from 2005 onwards for various types of donor and acceptor materials relevant to organic photovoltaics.
We performed temperature-dependent (150–300 K), steady-state PL measurements on all acceptor materials to probe the energetic disorder (Supplementary Fig. 15).
The integral J over wavelength, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda _{\mathrm{s}}$$\end{document}λs, quantifies the spectral overlap between the area-normalized PL spectrum of donor (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$f\left( {\lambda _{\mathrm{s}}} \right)$$\end{document}fλs) and the absorption spectrum of acceptor expressed in terms of molar-absorptivity (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\varepsilon \left( {\lambda _{\mathrm{s}}} \right)$$\end{document}ελs).
16 shows the absorption and PL spectra of all acceptor molecules studied.
Based on Fermi’s Golden rule, the energy transfer rate can be written as \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\nu = \frac{{2{\uppi}}}{\hbar }V^2J$$\end{document}ν=2πħV2J, where \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$V$$\end{document}V is the electronic coupling element, and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$J$$\end{document}J is the Franck–Condon weighted DOS which is normally approximated by the spectral overlap of the donor emission and of the acceptor absorption55.
Another interesting observation is that a large coupling between the donor and acceptor blocks of the acceptor–donor–acceptor-conjugated core leads to a quadrupolar-type excitation, with both acceptor blocks having an excess electron upon excitation59–61.
Overall, our findings can be rationalized to three design rules that can aid the synthesis of new materials with long exciton diffusion lengths: (i) increase the stiffness of the conjugated core; (ii) engineer the end-group substituents for favorable crystal packing; and (iii) increase the coupling between donor and acceptor blocks.
For bilayer CuSCN/acceptor devices, the acceptors were dissolved in chlorobenzene (CB) at different concentration (7–30 mg/ml) for EH-IDTBR, IT-M, ITIC, IT-2Cl, IT-4F, and PC71BM; or in chloroform (CF, 3–20 mg/ml) for Y6, IDIC, and SF-PDI2.
The acceptor layers were spun on CuSCN layer at different speed for 30 s to obtain acceptor film with different thicknesses (5‒150 nm, film thicknesses were measured by using the Tencor surface profiler).
A layer of 5 nm of Phen-NaDPO (DPO) as electron-transport layer (ETL) and exciton blocking layer (EBL) was spun from methanol solution (0.5 mg/ml) on top of the acceptor layer.
Neat films of acceptors for optical measurements (UV–vis, PL, ellipsometry, TA) were prepared from either CB (20 mg/ml) or CF (10 mg/ml) and spin-coated onto quartz substrates (or Si/SiO2 substrate for GIWAXS, and ellipsometry measurements) in glovebox at 2000 rpm.
To measure the intrinsic monomolecular decay constant from the dilute acceptors using TA, the blend film of acceptor with polystyrene was prepared from CF solution (2 mg/ml) and polystyrene (56 mg/ml) and mixed in 1:1 ratio.
The UV–vis absorption spectra of CuSCN and acceptor films were recorded using Cary 5000 spectrophotometer in the range 250–1100 nm.
Temperature-dependent PL data of neat acceptors were recorded using LabRam Aramis Raman spectrometer from Horiba Jobin Yvon following 633 nm (for EH-IDTBR, Y6, IT-M, ITIC, IT-2Cl, IT-4F, and IDIC) and 473 nm (for PC71BM, and SF-PDI2) laser excitations.
The PL quantum yield measurements of the acceptor films were carried out using an Edinburgh Instruments integrating sphere with an FLS920-s fluorescence spectrometer.
The nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) films were excited at different wavelengths: IDIC (600 nm), Y6 (700 nm), IT-M (700 nm), IT-4F (750 nm), IT-2Cl (700 nm), and ITIC (700 nm).
Low bandgap lead sulfide quantum dots (PbS QDs) are considered as a promising electron acceptor as a replacer of fullerene due to their tunable and broad absorption range, especially extending to the infrared region [11,12,13,14,15,16] and high electron mobility [17,18,19,20].
Similar PL quenching by charge transfer between the polymer and acceptor has been extensively observed in organic solar cell materials, being one way of showing the efficiency of charge generation [41].
To achieve this goal, a comprehensive study is performed based on four state-of-the-art non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), which allows to systematically examine the above-mentioned correlations from different scales.
With the most-acquired benefits from molecular structure and macroscopic factors, PM6:BTP-S9-based organic photovoltaics (OPVs) exhibit the optimal efficiency of 17.56% (certified: 17.4%) with a high fill factor of 78.44%, representing the best among asymmetric acceptor based OPVs.
Here, the authors conduct a comprehensive study based on four non-fullerene acceptors revealing how the extended conjugation, asymmetric terminals and alkyl chain length can affect device performance.
Especially for nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs), it has been evolved in several generations from early twisted molecules based on diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) or perylene diimide (PDI) units6,7, to efficient acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) type planar acceptors, typically ITIC8, then to state-of-the-art A-DA’D-A type Y-series molecules, like Y69.
Compared with symmetric NFAs, asymmetric electron acceptors with two different terminals, e.g., A1-D-A2 type molecules, have more possibilities in achieving more functionalities by combining or compromising diverse merits from two terminals14–16.
For example, our group previously reported asymmetric electron acceptors, BTP-S1 and BTP-S2, by introducing halogenated indandione (A1) and halogenated 3-dicyanomethylene-1-indanone (A2) as two different terminals, leading to high electroluminescence quantum efficiency and efficient charge separation simultaneously16.
Thus, together with symmetric electron acceptors, asymmetric electron acceptors provide an extra dimension to tailor the molecular structure for the correlation studies.
By pairing with the polymer donor PM6 (Fig.
1b), OPV devices were fabricated and optimized with these four acceptors.
Symmetric electron acceptor of BTP-S7 and asymmetric electron acceptors of BTP-S8 and BTP-S9 were all synthesized via one step of Knoevenagel condensation reaction.
Although there were by-products of symmetric molecules during the synthesis of BTP-S8 and BTP-S9, these two asymmetric electron acceptors could both be well separated as pure compounds from the mixtures.
The differences of these four electron acceptors mainly lie in electron-accepting terminals or alkyl side chains.
Two terminals of 2-(5,6-dichloro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (IC-2Cl) and 2-(6,7-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile (NC-2F) were selected with distinct features in conjugation lengths and halogen types, which might endow different features to relevant electron acceptors32–34.
Of course, all four electron acceptors demonstrated positive ESPs, which was beneficial for charge separation37.
To compare the energy levels of these four electron acceptors, cyclic voltammetry (CV) method was firstly applied (Fig.
The absorption spectra of the four electron acceptors in chloroform (CF) solutions and thin films were measured and compared (Fig.
To check the photovoltaic properties of OPVs based on four NFAs, PM6 was selected as the polymer donor (Fig.
The optimal conditions for BTP-S7 and BTP-S8 were identical in the donor/acceptor (D/A) weight ratio (1:1) and additive (0.5% 1-chloronaphthalene, CN), except the annealing temperature (80 °C for BTP-S7 and 100 °C for BTP-S8).
Consequently, OPVs based on two symmetric electron acceptors could realize PCEs of 17.21% (BO-4Cl) and 16.76% (BTP-S7), while those based on two asymmetric electron acceptors could achieve higher PCEs of 17.33% (BTP-S8) and 17.56% (BTP-S9).
Notably, the PCE of 17.56% was the highest efficiency reported to date for binary OPVs based on asymmetric electron acceptors (Supplementary Fig.
The differences in EQE spectra mainly located in 700–900 nm, which were originated from the absorption of electron acceptors.
For neat acceptors, they showed similar electron mobilities in the order of magnitude of 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 (Supplementary Fig. 10).
BTP-S7 and BTP-S8-based devices indeed possessed smaller EU values and less energetic disorder than BO-4Cl and BTP-S9-based devices, even though polymer donor PM6 was introduced.
For neat acceptor films (Fig.
All four electron acceptors showed face-on orientations.
4d), all four blends showed a lamellar peak at q = 0.30 Å−1 (d = 20.93 Å) from polymer donor PM6 in the OOP direction.
However, the lamellar peaks of acceptors in the IP direction also moved to q = 0.30 Å−1, under the influences of polymer donor PM6, indicating strong influence of PM6 on the molecular packing of NFAs.
Above distinct features of molecular packing from the acceptors in the blends might also reveal the molecular packing information in the single crystals of relevant NFAs, as demonstrated in previous works39,44.
Comparing with neat acceptor films, only PM6:BTP-S9 blend could maintain the position of π–π stacking peak as that of neat acceptor, after introducing polymer donor PM6, while the other three blends would all be affected.
It was found that the IP domain sizes of pure acceptor phases were 22, 30, 35 and 53 nm in PM6:BO-4Cl, PM6:BTP-S7, PM6:BTP-S8, and PM6:BTP-S9 blends, respectively.
c Macroscopic factors matrix of μe, ΔE3, τexciton (exciton lifetime for pure acceptors) and τh (total average hole transfer time).
c Macroscopic factors matrix of μe, ΔE3, τexciton (exciton lifetime for pure acceptors) and τh (total average hole transfer time).
The surface roughness (RMS), π–π stacking distance (L(010)) and domain size of pure acceptor phase (in the D:A blends) are selected as the morphological characteristics for comparison (Fig. 6b).
With long alkyl side chain (C11) fixed, conjugation extension from BO-4Cl to BTP-S7 may lead to increased RMS and domain size of pure acceptor phase, while molecular asymmetry from BTP-S7 to BTP-S8 further enlarges the domain size of pure acceptor phase.
Notably, shortening alkyl side chain (C9) from BTP-S8 to BTP-S9 increases RMS and domain size of the pure acceptor phase, indicating terminal packing may be strengthened for BTP-S9.
Besides, all four NFAs own exciton lifetime of around 0.9 ns in neat acceptor films, thus providing enough tolerance for exciton dissociation even with large domain sizes.
As a result, with the most-acquired benefits from molecular structure and macroscopic factors, the OPV based on the designed asymmetric acceptor BTP-S9 with shorter alkyl side chain achieved the optimal PCE of 17.56% with a high FF of 78.44%.
The core of DPP contains two amine units and carbonyl groups with bicyclic, which endow the DPP pigments with strong electron deficiency properties that can be used for the construction of donor-acceptor (D-A) conjugated materials.
Since the first DPP polymer was reported with the μh of 0.1 cm2 V−1 s−1 and μe up to 0.09 cm2 V−1 s−1, the DPP chromophore and its derivatives have obtained a tremendous amount of attention as an electron acceptor in building D-A typed semiconductor materials (Bürgi et al., 2008).
In this OSC, the DPP-based polymer operated as a donor and fullerene worked as an electron acceptor.
Later, the same group modified the alkyl chain and donor unit (phenyl instead of bithiophene) for polymerization.
The higher Voc could be ascribed to: (i) in most cases, the Voc in BHJ solar cells are related to the energy difference between the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of the acceptor and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels of the donor (conjugated materials); (ii) the donor units in the materials mainly contribute to the HOMO levels; (iii) phenyl showed weak donor ability compared to thiophene.
Using these polymers as electron donor and 3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1- dicyanomethylene)-indanone))-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2',3'-d']-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b']dithiophene (ITIC) as electron acceptor to build NFOSCs resulted in the PCE of 1.9–4.1%.
These studies indicated that it is crucial to tune the miscibility between donor and acceptor for improving the performance of NFOSCs.
reported two NIR absorbing DPP-based oligomers and used them as acceptors combined with 6TIC as a donor to construct NFSOCs (Gao et al., 2019).
In organic solar cells, polymers are often used as donor layers, buffer layers, and other polymer-based micro/nanostructures in binary or ternary devices to influence device performances.
The first breakthrough of OPVs is the development from the initial single-layer architectures to donor-acceptor (D-A) bilayer architectures [11,225,226,227].
As shown in Figure 15, the organic polymer active layer produces the excitons under the excitation of light; The excitons diffuse in the bulk of the active layer; Once reaching to the interface of donor/acceptor, the excitons were separated into the electrons and holes, which were then transferred to the two electrodes to produce the photocurrent [228,229,230,231].
The traditional acceptors include the fullerene and its derivatives due to high electron affinity, long electron diffusion length, and rapid charge separation [11,232], such as C60, PC60BM, and PC70BM.
However, the selection range of polymer donors is wider than that of acceptors.
The ideal polymer donors should satisfy the following conditions: With the medium or low bandgap; with high carriers mobility; with matched energy levels; with good solubility [233,234,235,236].
Figure 16 and Table 7 show the molecular structures of selected polymer donor materials and the photovoltaic performances parameters of corresponding devices.
The poly(2-methoxy-5-(2’-ethyl-hexyloxy)-1,4-phenylene vinylene) (MEH-PPV) is the first studied polymer donor.
However, the low charge mobility and narrow spectral absorption range doubtlessly limit the wide application of MEH-PPV donor.
Poly (thiophene)-based conjugated polymer represented by P3HT has been extensively used as the donor in OPV due to its high carrier mobility, good solubility, and excellent crystallinity and self-assembly performance [238].
Besides, polyfluorenes is also one of the typical building blocks for donor due to its excellent features [242,243,244]: Polyfluorenes possess good charge transport performance; Polyfluorenes is facile to self-organize as the anisotropic liquid crystalline structure; Polyfluorenes can act as the electron or hole conductors; The rigid plane structure of polyfluorene equips it low HOMO energy level.
Even though the extensive donors in PV are based on the polyfluorenes, the device efficiencies are still low, which can be attributed to its wide bandgap limits the spectral absorption range [245].
The donors based the MEH-PPV, P3HT, and polyfluorenes all possess the wide bandgap, which decides the low short current in corresponding devices.
Hence, developing the donors with the medium or low bandgap is significant for improving the device efficiency of OPV.
Except the above mentioned electron donors, the polymers based on the indacenodithiophene (IDT), indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT), and 1,3-bis(thiophen-2-yl)-5,7-bisethylhexyl) benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD) also have been used as the donor materials with medium bandgap due to their conjugate structure is helpful to improve the hole mobility [254,255,256,257].
In order to broad the light-harvesting range, more research is devoted to the design the electrons donors with narrow bandgap [257].
The benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene (BDT) and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) are two representative units for synthesizing the polymer donor materials with narrow bandgap.
These two merits give the priority to use BDT unit to design the ideal donor materials [258].
After alternating the PC71BM acceptor to 6-3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))-5,5,11,11-tetra-kis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2’,3’-d’]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’]dithiophene) (ITIC) [263].
Hence, designing and synthesising the polymeric donor materials with narrow bandgap are the key to improve the light-harvesting and device efficiency of organic solar cells.
The traditional organic solar cells are composed of polymer donors and fullerene-based acceptors.
Therefore, a series of nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) materials have been reported due to its strong light absorption and easily tunable energy levels.
Hence, the fullerene acceptor was introduced into the binary polymers donor: Nonfullerene acceptor system to fabricate the ternary OPV.
As the third component, the fullerene can compensate the deficiencies of nonfullerene acceptors.
fabricated the ternary OPVs using wide-bandgap PTB1-C as donor and highly conductive PC71BM and narrow-bandgap nonfullerene IT-2F as acceptor [268].
For a common device with BJH structure, the electron donor and acceptor interspersed randomly in the active layer, which always leads to the discontinuous electron transport pathways.
The key to realizing the high-efficient OPV is to design the novel polymer donors with narrow bandgap and appropriate energy level arrangement.
The majority of the hybrid perovskite application was in planar standard structure.18–20 The first application of organic–inorganic perovskite materials in inverted solar cells was in 2013 by Jeng et al.21 which the perovskite was used as a donor and PC61BM as an acceptor to construct a perovskite/fullerene planar heterojunction hybrid solar cell.
The MAPbBr3 was used as absorber material and electron donating material while a soluble fullerene derivative, 6,6-phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester (purchased from Ossila Ltd.), was used as an acceptor material.
To investigate the consequence of different substitution positions of various π-linkers on the photovoltaic properties of an organic solar cell molecule, we have introduced two series of six three-donor molecules, by the substitution of some effective π-linkers on the A–π–D–π–A type reference molecule IECIO-4F (taken as IOR).
In series “a” the thienyl or furyl bridge is directly linked between the donor and acceptor moieties, while in series “b” the phenyl ring of the same bridge is working as the direct point of attachment.
Also, the studied morphology, optical characteristics, and electronic attributes of this series of proposed molecules signified the fact that the molecules with thienyl or furyl ring working as the direct link between the acceptor and donor molecules showed enhanced charge transfer abilities, and could provide a maximum quantum yield of the solar energy supplied.We have introduced two series of six three-donor molecules, by the substitution of some effective π-linkers on the A–π–D–π–A type reference molecule IECIO-4F (taken as IOR) for efficient organic solar cells.
The active layer of these significant OSCs is a blend of various donor and acceptor molecules, where donor molecules act as p-type, while acceptors act as n-type semiconductors.7,8 A necessary condition for efficient intramolecular charge transfer is proper differentiation of acceptor and donor regions.
This way, the charge, after its generation in the donor region, can easily transfer within the molecule toward the acceptor region.9 Sometimes, the presence of a bridge between these donor and acceptor regions can significantly improve the intramolecular charge transfer.
In addition, upon stacking, they seem to suppress the aggression between them, owing to their increased conjugation length.11 Though various studies have been performed on the effect of different π-linkers on the photovoltaic performance of the OSCs, the data still seems to be lacking as compared to that present out there on the effect of different acceptor or donor regions.12
To increase the charge separation and ease of intramolecular charge transfer, various thiophene, furan, oligothiophene, polyenes, and other fused aromatic rings have been introduced into the otherwise donor–acceptor (D–A) type molecule.
This molecule consists of an electron-rich indacenodithiophene (IDT) based donor core, which has four phenyl rings contributing to its electron-rich character.
Attached to this donor core on both sides are the methoxy thiophene π-linkers that act as prominent charge transfer moieties for efficient charge transfer from the donor core to the peripheral acceptors.
The acceptors attached at the peripheries of this molecule are the strongly electron withdrawing 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-yl)-malononitrile groups.
Accredited to these proficient fragments of this highly planar molecule, it shows significant absorption in the chloroform solvent with a range of 600–900 nm, locating close to the near-infrared region, and a narrow bandgap of only 1.73 eV.15 In addition, a blend of this molecule with PBDTTT-EFT donor molecule exhibited an impressive experimental power conversion efficiency of 10%, an open-circuit of voltage of 0.739 V with a notable short-circuit current of 22.8 mA cm−2 and an energy loss of only 0.501 eV.15 Furthermore, IEICO-4F, by promoting the crystallization of the film, reduces the charge recombination of the corresponding device.16 So, taking into account these remarkable attributes of IEICO-4F, this molecule was selected for our research in a quest to increase its already outstanding optoelectronic properties for prominent organic photovoltaic cells.
It was seen that the 2,5-position demonstrated a 40% increase in PCE as compared to the 3,4-position.17 It is generally seen that the point of attachment of the bridges between the donor and acceptor region of a molecule remarkably affects the hole mobility, electrochemical attributes, and photovoltaic performance of the molecule.18 Thus, two series (“a” and “b”) of donor molecules are designed here, to study the effect of the substitution position of various π-linkers on the device performance of the molecule under consideration.
Pictorial representation of reference (IOR) and “a series” of all the scrutinized molecules (donor core is colored black, acceptors are red in colour, while blue, pink, and green represents various bridges).
Thus, from this point onwards, based on both these validations, MPW1PW91 functional was selected, for further computations in this investigation of the structural, photo-physical, and optoelectronic properties of the newly proposed series of donor molecules.
The bond length between the substituted π-linker and the attached acceptor moieties is demonstrated as Al, while the one between donor and π-linker is written as Dl.
A general perspective is that planar molecules having bulky electron donor and acceptor segments are crucial in attaining effective separation and generation of charges.
This planar geometry could also increase the conjugation length, as well as enhance the long-range π–π stacking in the molecule.39 In the studied molecules, the dihedral angle on the acceptor side, is represented through θa, and the one on the donor side, is written as θd.
This planarity could only be attributed to the fact that in the “a” series, all the acceptors and donors are attached through a thiophene/furan ring and not a bulky phenyl ring, as is the case in the “b” series.
The highest occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbitals collectively constitute the frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs), and the difference between them is commonly known as the electronic band gap (Eg).40 Generally, for a high performing photovoltaic chromophore, the HOMO should be concentrated over the donor region of a molecule, while the LUMO should be more concentrated over the acceptor region.
This way, the electron from the donor region could effectively be transferred over to the acceptor region.41 Also, the presence of charge density on the bridges show their contribution to the charge transfer from HOMO towards LUMO.
S3† reveals that in the reference molecule IOR, the HOMO is spread over the donor, bridge, and a little bit on the acceptor region of the molecule.
In the case of the “b” series, the HOMO charge density is highly concentrated over the central donor and π-linkers, and the LUMO is more densely spread over the π-linkers along with the acceptors.
The lower charge density over the acceptors in the case of HOMO and donor in the case of LUMO could be due to the distorted configuration of the molecules in the “b” series.
The reason behind this narrow bandgap could be due to the presence of its highly effective π-linkers, which though is quite similar to the bridges present in IO3, differing only in the presence of sulphur atom in place of oxygen, and this sulphur atom due to its lower ability to attract the electron towards itself as compared to the oxygen atom could effectively transfer charge from donor to terminal acceptor, instead of retaining it, thus lowering the bandgap.
These DOS are actually the number of states that an electron is allowed to occupy at a specific energy level, and they also represent the contribution of HOMO and LUMO orbitals in any electronic excitation.47 For the sake of ease of evaluation of the DOS, the molecules were fragmented into donor, acceptor, and bridges.
4 and S4,† the partial density of states (PDOS) of acceptors is illustrated through the cyan line, bridges through blue, and that of the core is through the green line.
It is demonstrated that in IOR the contribution of the donor in elevating the HOMO value is higher than the molecules of the “a” series, while its contribution is lower than the molecules of the “b” series.
This provides us a shred of evidence towards our assumption that the molecules of the “a” series could act as better donor molecules and could have better charge transfer ability than that of the “b” series, accredited to the distinctive separation of charge density in these molecules.
The highest value of binding energy in both the proposed series was seen to be of IO3 (a and b), which could be due to the presence of highly electron withdrawing oxygen atom present in the bridges of this molecule that instead of transfer the charges between the donor and acceptor must have shifted the charges towards themselves, thus raising the value of binding energy of the corresponding molecule.
The blue color demonstrates zero charge density, while red shows the maximum charge density present in the transition of the specific molecule.65 For easier evaluation, the number of atoms in the TDMs were fragmented into donor core (C), bridges (π), and acceptor (A) of the molecule.
Here, between IO1a and IO1b, the charge density is diagonally as well as off-diagonally spread over the bridges and acceptor components of the molecules, respectively, as represented by their brighter fringes in these areas as compared to others.
This spread of charge density signifies the contribution of the π-linkers in effective transfer of charges between acceptor and donor components of the molecules.
In case of the reference molecule IOR, its lowest λe implies the notable ability of this molecule to act as the fullerene-free acceptor, as cited in many literatures.68 But in case of our proposed molecule, all of them, due to their lower values of λh relative to the λe, could act as better donor molecules, as opposed to the reference molecule.
S8,† provides a significant evidence towards our claim of the newly designed molecules being donors in the active layer of effective OSCs.
These values were acquired by taking all our investigated molecules as donor, and thus their HOMO values were then employed for evaluation of the VOC by using the LUMO of PC61BM.
PC61BM is a common and highly effective fullerene molecule, and is availed in many active layers as the acceptor component of the BHJ OSCs.
Open-circuit voltage of all the researched molecular donors attained with PC61BM acceptor molecule.
Such as, the maximum absorption values (λmax), excitons binding energy, electronic and optical band gap, open-circuit voltage, fill factor, chemical softness and hardness, and the hole reorganization energies, all gave outcomes in favor of utilizing the donor molecules of “a” series for the construction of effective organic photovoltaic cells.
In this study, a series of non-fused thiophene ring-based small molecular acceptors (4T1–4T7) of A-D-A type are developed by the replacement of the end-groups of the 4TR molecule.
The VOC values of all acceptor molecules are calculated with respect to the PTB7-Th donor.
VOC was calculated by making their complex of molecules with PTB7-Th donor.
Bulk heterojunctions are another modern approach toward photovoltaic cells in which a blended form of donor and acceptor material is present in the active layer,13 such as the bulk heterojunction of a P3HT donor and PC61BM and PC71BM acceptors in fullerene-based OSCs.14,15 In order to attain effective dissociation of excitons as well as transfer of charge, the donor and acceptor areas should possess their own consistent phase structures, correct phase sizes, maximum phase purities, and organized molecular packing and orientation.
Clearly, the active layer's shape is not only influenced by the molecular aggregation qualities of discrete donors and acceptors but also by their intramolecular interactions.
Today, the majority of highly efficient OSCs depend on techniques of device optimization such as additives, solvent annealing, thermal annealing and thermal spin-coating procedures.16 Fullerene derivatives are considered good acceptor choices for organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells due to their electron-withdrawing efficiency, effective charge mobility and 3-D structures.17 Fullerene-based acceptors have affected the OPV industry though some of their imperfections, such as nontunable energy levels, structural instability, expensive production methods, and absorption of shorter wavelengths.18 Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) exclude the downsides of fullerene-based OSCs by their excellent properties, such as flexible structure, tunable energy levels, cost-efficient production approaches and transparent morphology.17,19,20
A variety of modifications have been performed, such as alkyl chain engineering, interfacial alteration of donor–acceptor moieties as well as substitution of the terminal ends, to tune the optoelectronic properties and increase the efficiency of non-fullerene-based OSCs.21–23 Fused ring electron-acceptors (FREAs) with an A–D–A molecular structure were described with PCEs equivalent or superior to those of the corresponding OSCs using fullerene acceptors since 2015.24 OSCs have progressed to a new level in their modification, and a number of highly efficient FREAs, such as IDIC,25 EICO-4F,26 IHIC,27 ITIC,24 BT-IC,28 and DTDP-IC,29 have emerged.
In spite of their remarkable efficiency, FREAs have complicated chemical structures that need lengthy syntheses and many purification procedures, resulting in poor yields and high production costs.30 Low-cost acceptor materials should be made with a minimum of synthetic stages and simple purifying methods using readily accessible starting materials.31,32 Using widely accessible derivatives of thiophene as precursors, non-fused electron acceptors (FNEAs) were produced based on tetrathiophene groups with very high yields in two stages.30
In the present research, a non-fused tetrathiophene-based acceptor molecule with A–D–A symmetry is taken as a reference molecule (4TR).
The reference molecule basically consists of four non-fused thiophene rings that are further linked to 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-malononitrile accepting moieties at the end sites.30 We developed seven new molecules (4T1–4T7) by the modification of the terminal acceptor moieties and replaced them with new acceptor moieties, i.e.
The densities of states (DOS) of 4TR and the developed molecules (4T1–4T7) were explored using PyMOlyze-1.1 software to determine the roles of different portions of the molecules, such as the donor and acceptor portions, in the absorption.45 To show transition density matrix (TDM) results at the level of theory applied in electronic excited state computations, the Multiwfn-Multifunctional wavefunction analyzer was utilized.46
The dihedral angles of all the examined molecules have a range of 0.254–0.594°, which means that all the molecules possess a planar geometry without any twist between the non-fused thiophene groups and terminal acceptors and also without any groups causing hindrance.
By the modification of the parent molecule 4TR, such as replacement of the terminal acceptor groups in this case, the HOMO–LUMO gap (Eg) can be improved.
In reference 4TR, the bonding orbitals have a calculated energy of −5.97 eV, while the antibonding orbitals have a calculated value of −3.49 eV with a bandgap of 2.47 eV; this is greater than the Eg values of all the developed molecules (4T1–4T7), because the 4T1–4T7 molecules have efficient electron-withdrawing acceptor parts at the end sites of the molecules, and therefore these modified molecules possess shorter bandgaps than the 4TR molecule.
In all the investigated molecules (4TR, 4T1–4T7), the charge density is mainly dominated by the non-fused thiophene core part of the molecules at the ground state, and the charge shifts to the terminal acceptor groups of the molecules in the excited state.
In general, molecules with robust electron-withdrawing moieties possess a smaller bandgap as well as greater light absorption, encouraging charge mobility.53 The results illustrate that 4T2 possesses a smaller bandgap of 2.34 eV than all other examined molecules; the reason is the presence of a robust electron-withdrawing acceptor group at the terminal position, i.e., 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile, which indicates the greatest mobility of charge from the HOMO to the LUMO.
The dipole moment determines the solubility of engineered molecules in polar organic solvents.59 The dipole moment describes the efficient flow of electrons and holes between the donor and acceptor components.
In the present case, the 4T2 molecule has the smallest dipole moment both in the gaseous and solvent forms, clearly indicating its lessened charge transfer and reduced solubility in solvent, while the 4T1 molecule possesses the greatest dipole moment in both phases because it has two different and robust electron-withdrawing groups (COOCH3 and CN) at the edges of the acceptors, indicating efficient solubility in solvent and proficient charge transfer.
DOS investigations are performed to further validate the roles of each fragment of a molecule, i.e., donor and acceptor, in the charge mobility of the molecule, as it is a helpful aspect for determining the arrangement of the electronic density distribution on the FMOs based on the Mulliken charge distribution theory.60,61 DOS computations of all the examined molecules were executed by employing the MPW1PW91/6-31G (d, p) method, and the graphs were drawn using PyMOlyze 1.1 software.
For the analysis of the contributions of specific fragments of the molecules to the FMOs, each molecule was segmented into two parts, i.e., donor and acceptor.
In the graphs of 4TR and 4T1–4T7, red, black and green lines represent the involvements of the donor and acceptor and the total contribution of the moieties to increasing the FMOs, respectively, as represented in Fig.
Influence of the donor and acceptor moieties on elevating the HOMO and LUMO of molecules 4TR and 4T1–4T7
The results from the DOS analysis of all the molecules (4TR and 4T1–4T7) illustrated that all the molecules have comparable contributions of donor and acceptor, i.e., the donor fragment makes the major contribution in the ground state and the acceptor moieties are dominant in the excited state; this evidently signifies the conjugation and facilitating the charge transfer from the donor to the acceptor moieties of the molecules, which will possibly improve the overall efficacy of organic SCs.
The results illustrate that the electron-rich donor core majorly participates in the HOMO, and the charge shifts from the core donor to the terminal acceptor part, which is the LUMO; moreover, the participation of the acceptor moieties is greater in almost all the newly developed molecules compared to the 4TR molecule, proving the efficient charge transfer and the greater efficiency of the molecules.
The reorganization energy (RE), which quantifies the movement of charge from the donor to the acceptor fragments and is coupled to the hole and electron migration charge, is the driving factor in developing competent materials for OSCs.62 The charge mobility is inversely related to the RE.
The electron mobility of acceptor and donor groups depends on their anionic and cationic geometries, respectively.
Overall, the results demonstrate that the modification of the 4TR molecule by new acceptor groups has a positive influence on the charge transfer capabilities of the molecules.
The maps of the investigated molecules show red color on the oxygen and nitrogen atoms and a small amount of red color on the fluorine atoms present on the terminal acceptor groups, indicating strong electron density on these sites.
In all the examined molecules (4TR and 4T1–4T7), the electron density is dispersed over all the molecules, mainly on their donor region, as shown in Fig.
Electronic consistency spreads diagonally and off-diagonally, but more dominantly diagonally, from donor to acceptor.
The scheme illustrated effectual charge dispersal from the donor to the acceptor moiety of the molecule, indicating the efficient transfer of electrons from the donor to the acceptor by successive conjugation.
4T2 has the lowest value of the interaction coefficient, demonstrating efficient charge transfer from the donor to the acceptor part of the molecule.
TDM plots of molecules 4TR and 4T1–4T7 (A = acceptor, D = donor).
The supreme current which can be achieved from an electrical equipment while the input voltage is zero is called VOC.69 Certain factors that impact VOC include the light intensity, temperature of the solar cell, and charge mobility as well as the difference in energy between the acceptor's LUMO and the donor's HOMO.70 In this study, the HOMO of PTB7-Th as a donor molecule was compared to the LUMOs of all the acceptor molecules (4T1–4T7), and VOC was estimated computationally.
PTB7-Th is a competent donor, with −5.20 eV energy of its HOMO and −3.60 energy of its LUMO as reported in the literature.71 The given eqn (8) was employed to calculate the VOC values of our investigated molecules by forming their complexes with the PTB7-Th donor.8
The HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the PTB7-Th donor and examined acceptor molecules with the calculated VOC values are shown in Fig.
Theoretically estimated VOC values of molecules 4TR and 4T1–4T7 with the PTB7-Th donor.
It is a parameter that is mostly determined by the donor–acceptor VOC.
In the present research, we designed a series of non-thiophene ring-based acceptor–donor-acceptor type molecules (4T1-4T7) by replacing the end-capped acceptor groups of the 4TR molecule.
4T2 has the lowest interaction coefficient (0.688), demonstrating efficient transfer of charge from the donor to the acceptor moieties of the molecule.
The VOC values of all the studied acceptor compounds were estimated by forming their complexes with PTB7-Th as a donor; the values ranged from 1.50 to 2.12 eV.
The calculated findings show that the examined acceptor molecules performed more efficiently as compared to the previously reported molecule 4TR.
Among various characteristics of solvents like donor number, dielectric constants, and viscosity, the donor number shows manifest influence on the VOC and JSC of DSSCs.
fabricated DSSCs based on a novel dye (2TPA-R), containing two triphenylamine (TPA) units connected by a vinyl group and rhodanine-3-acetic acid as the electron acceptor to study the intramolecular energy transfer (EnT) and charge transfer (ICT) [184].
The construction of most of the organic dyes is based on the donor- acceptor (D-A)-like structure linked through a π-conjugated bridge (D–π–A) and usually has a rod-like configuration.
Moieties like indoline, triarylamine, coumarin, and fluorine are employed as an electron donor unit, whereas carboxylic acid, cyanoacrylic acid, and rhodamine units are best applicable as electron acceptors to fulfill the requirement.
The linking of donor and acceptor is brought about by adding π spacer such as polyene and oligothiophene [185, 186].
This type of the structure results in a higher photoinduced electron transfer from the donor to acceptor through linker (spacer) to the conduction band of the TiO2 layer, where the π-conjugation can be extended either by increasing the methine unit or by introducing aromatic rings such as benzene, thiophene, and furan or in other words by adding either electron donating or withdrawing groups, which results in the enhanced light harvesting ability of the dye, and by using different donor, linker, and acceptor groups, the photophysical properties of the organic dyes can also be tuned [187, 188].
demonstrated a one-pot procedure to clarify the structure–property relationships of donor–π–acceptor dyes for DSSCs through rapid library synthesis [191].
Four novel organic dyes IDB-1, ISB-1, IDB-2, and ISB-2, based on 5-phenyl-iminodibenzyl (IDB) and 5-phenyliminostlbene (ISB) as electron donors and cyanoacrylic acid moiety as an electron acceptor connected with a thiophene as a π-conjugated system, were designed by Wang et al.
To induce a bathochromic shift and augment the absorption, a number of thiophene units could be increased in the spacers, and by controlling the length of these thiophene units or chain, higher efficiencies up to two to three units can be achieved [216, 217], as the π-conjugated spacers used previously were thiophenes linked directly or through double bonds to the donor moiety [218].
As good electron injection is one of the parameters for higher efficiency in the DSSCs, cyanoacetic acid and cyanoacrylic acid are well employed as acceptor units due to their strong electron withdrawing capability.
concluded cyanoacrylic acid as a strong electron acceptor for D–π–A-based dyes because the dye incorporating cyanoacrylic acid as an electron acceptor showed the best results and, due to the maximum absorption spectrum and the highest molar excitation coefficient, the DSSC achieved η = 4.93% [219].
Wang and co-workers designed organic dyes based on thienothiophene as π conjugation unit, where they used triphenylamine as donor and cyanoacetic acid as an acceptor.
Generally, the D–A structure of an indole dye is such that the indole moiety acts as an electron donor and is connected to a rhodanine group that acts as an electron acceptor.
The performance of a basic D–π–A organic dye can be improved by simply binding donor substitutions on the π-linker of the dye [240].
Thus, Prachumrak and co-workers have synthesized three new molecularly engineered D–π–A dyes, namely T2–4, comprising TPA as a donor, terthiophene containing different numbers of TPA substitutions as a π-conjugated linker and cyanoacrylic acid as an acceptor [240].
They used the nonplanar structures of bishexapropyltruxeneamino as an electron donor [243] and investigated the impact of addition of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) in the respective dyes, as MXD5-7 without CDCA showed lower photocurrent and efficiency as compared to the dyes MXD5-7 with 3 mM CDCA.
In 2018, Manfredi and group have designed di-branched dyes based on a triphenylamino (TPA) donor core with different aromatic and heteroaromatic peripheral groups bonded to TPA as auxiliary donors [247].
In these dyes, PTZ unit acted as an electron donor, cyanoacrylic acid or rhodanine-3-acetic acid was used as an electron acceptor, and alkyl chains were used to increase the solubility.
reported modified phenothiazine (P1-P3) dyes [252] with the molecular structure containing the same acceptor and conjugation chain but different donors.
synthesized two novel organic dyes (PTZ-1 and PTZ-2) using electron-rich phenothiazine as electron donors and oligothiophene vinylene as conjugation spacers.
reported an efficiency of 6.02% for the DSSCs using S4 dye as a sensitizer, with an additional carbazole moiety to the outside of the donor group and found that the additional moiety facilitated the charge separation thereby decreasing the recombination rate between conduction band electrons and the oxidized sensitizer [185].
New structured dyes, i.e., D–A–π–A-type and D–D–π–A-type organic dyes, have been developed by inserting the subordinate donor–acceptor such as 3,6-ditert-butylcarbazole-2,3-diphenylquinoxaline to facilitate electron migration, restrain dye aggregation, and improve photostability [260].
Thus, by further extending the π conjugation of the linkers, mounting the electron-donating and electron-accepting capability of donors and acceptors, and substituting long alkyl chains, more stable DSSCs with lower dye aggregation and higher efficiency can be achieved.
have demonstrated nanocrystalline TiO2 dye-sensitized solar cells with PCE of 4.47% successfully designed two metal-free dyes (TPA–CN1–R2 and TPA–CN2–R1), containing triphenylamine and cyanovinylene 4-nitrophenyls as donors and carboxylic acid as an acceptor [263].
reported the doping of 1,8-naphthalimide (N-Bu) derivative fluorophore directly into a TiO2 mesoporous film with N719 for application in DSSCs [307], in which the N-Bu functioned as the FRET donor and transferred the energy via spectral down-conversion to the N719 molecules (FRET acceptor).
Anion exchange with near-infrared (NIR)-selective cyanine (Cy+) heptamethine cations enables facile tuning of the frontier orbital energies, the interface gap (the difference in the donor highest occupied molecular orbital and the acceptor lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) between the salt donor and fullerene (C60) acceptor, and thus the open circuit voltage (V oc)1–3.
1c): indium tin oxide (ITO) (120 nm) / MoO3 (10 nm) / CyX (y nm) / C60 (40 nm) / bathocuproine (BCP) (7.5 nm) / Ag (80 nm), where X is the anion paired with Cy+ and y is the donor layer thickness.
Cy donor layers were deposited from dimethylformamide (DMF) or chlorobenzene (CB) under nitrogen while all other layers were thermally deposited under vacuum.
2, with average performance metrics for the optimum thicknesses and calculated donor EDLs shown in Table 1.
Table 1Device performance parameters.Average performance parameters for optimum donor thicknesses, donor (near-infrared) external quantum efficiency (EQE) peak values, and exciton diffusion lengths (EDLs) calculated from EQE data in Fig.
Average performance parameters for optimum donor thicknesses, donor (near-infrared) external quantum efficiency (EQE) peak values, and exciton diffusion lengths (EDLs) calculated from EQE data in Fig.
A high degree of fluorination on the anion is correlated with a deepening of the HOMO and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the salt donor2,3.
This explains why the CyPhB devices exhibit little J sc and V oc < 0.1 V and high leakage current (Figure S6) across all donor thicknesses.
The J sc trend is correlated with the thickness dependence observed in the salt donor (NIR) portion of the EQE data (Figure S7).
Atomic force microscopy (AFM) and cross-sectional scanning electron microscopy (SEM) data, shown in Figures S8 and S9, indicate smooth donor/acceptor interfaces.
The more pronounced voltage trends exhibited by CyClPhB, CyFPhB, CyTFM, and Cy2FCB are instead caused by band bending of the salt donors and concomitant changes in the interface gap as illustrated in Fig.
Schematic donor-acceptor (D-A) band structures illustrating changes in interface gap (IG) as a function of donor thickness (tD).
Schematic donor-acceptor (D-A) band structures illustrating changes in interface gap (IG) as a function of donor thickness (tD).
The formation of superoxide species has been proposed elsewhere17 as a charge transfer process in competition with exciton recombination and charge carrier extraction provided that the HOMO or LUMO of the donor or acceptor is closer to the vacuum level than the ground state of adsorbed oxygen.
This ability to tune the surface energy with the donor layer may also be beneficial to overall device stability in the future and improve the flexibility in processing multi-layer devices.Table 2Surface energy and solubility data.SaltWater Angle (Degrees)DIM Angle (Degrees)Surface Energy (mN/m)Solubility in CB (mg/mL)Solubility in DMF (mg/mL)Solubility in Water (mg/mL)CyTPFB99.8 ± 0.452 ± 438 ± 32.4107 × 10–5 CyClPhB76 ± 38.7 ± 0.652 ± 47.7103 × 10–5 CyFPhB72.9 ± 0.56 ± 151 ± 921102 × 10–5 CyTFM58 ± 750 ± 443 ± 519101 × 10–4 CyPhB77 ± 38 ± 250 ± 100.456.32 × 10–5 CyCBH70 ± 27.2 ± 0.751 ± 50.28102 × 10–5 CyCoCB80 ± 113 ± 253 ± 80.27102 × 10–5 Cy2FCB76.3 ± 0.424.6 ± 0.447 ± 0.80.023104 × 10–5 CyI71 ± 2055 ± 51127 × 10–5 CyPF6 75 ± 425 ± 247 ± 3295 × 10–5 Water and diiodomethane (DIM) contact angles, surface energies, and solubilities in chlorobenzene (CB), dimethylformamide (DMF), and water measured for salt films utilizing selected anions from ref.2 and the phenyl borate and carborane anions from this study.
Two novel small molecules DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX, based on ditolylaminothienyl group as donor moiety and quinoxaline as middle acceptor moiety with different terminal acceptor groups were synthesized and characterized in this work.
In order to study the photovoltaic properties of DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX, bulk-heterojunction solar cells with the configuration of FTO/c-TiO2/DTRDTQX(or DTIDTQX):C70/MoO3/Ag were fabricated, in which DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX acted as the donors and neat C70 as the acceptor.
All the experimental data indicated that DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX could be employed as potential donor candidates for organic solar cell applications.
Compared with polymers employed in solar cells, small molecule donors have the advantage of less batch-to-batch variation, well-defined molecular structure, easier purification, etc.
Therefore, much work focused on small molecule donors and the photovoltaic performance of OSCs was improved accordingly (Sun et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2013; Love et al., 2013; Coughlin et al., 2014).
In general, the active layers of the solar cells consisted of small molecule donors and fullerene/fullerene derivative acceptors (Chen et al., 2012; Huang et al., 2016).
In order to optimize the photovoltaic characteristics of OSCs, narrow band-gap and deep highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of small molecule donors should be considered, which resulted in broad absorption and high open-circuit voltage (Voc) of devices.
Then, various small molecules composed of electron rich moieties (donor, “D”) and electron deficient moieties (acceptor, “A”), have been reported with the molecular configuration such as D-A (Roquet et al., 2006), A-D-A (Schulze et al., 2006), D-A-A (Lin et al., 2011) and D-A-D conjugated structures.
In this regard, the HOMO and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the small molecules were effectively tuned, mainly due to the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) between donors and acceptors (Zhang et al., 2011).
Herein, the photovoltaic properties of two novel small molecule donors (named DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX, Figure 1) based on D-A-A structure were studied in this work.
DTIDTQX or DTRDTQX consisted of ditolylaminothienyl group as the donor moiety, quinoxaline as middle acceptor moiety with different terminal acceptor groups such as 1,3-indandione or 3-ethylrhodanine, respectively.
To investigate the photovoltaic properties of the small molecules, bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells based on DTRDTQX or DTIDTQX as the donor together with C70 as the acceptor were fabricated and the optimal cells showed PCE of 1.44 and 1.70%, respectively.
All materials in this work were purchased commercially, except for the tailor made DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX donors.
As to the photoactive layers, DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX served as the donors and C70 as the acceptor, respectively.
Therefore, both DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX were stable donors for OSCs due to their decent thermal stability.
To study the photovoltaic properties of the small molecules, OSCs with the structure of FTO/c-TiO2/donor:C70/MoO3/Ag were fabricated.
In order to further study the charge transporting properties of the p-type small molecules, hole mobility was measured by using the space-charge-limited current (SCLC) method and the structure of the hole-only devices was ITO/PEDOT:PSS/donor/Au.
All the experimental data showed that DTIDTQX and DTRDTQX were promising donor candidates for small molecule OSCs and improved photovoltaic performance of OSCs based on DTIDTQX and DTRDTQX would be foreseen in the future.
DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX were used as the donors in bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
Therefore, DTRDTQX and DTIDTQX would be promising donor materials for organic solar cells in future.
The simulation results suggest that the discrete acceptor-like gap states can cause a dramatic change in the J-V curve, shaping the standard exponential diode curve to S-shape.
found that trap density can be effectively decreased by trap-filling with 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-7,7,8,8-tetracyanoquinodim-ethane(F4-TCNQ) in the donor polymer [20].
In the above equations, q is the elementary charge, φ is the potential barrier, ε0 is the permeability in free space, εr is the relative dielectric permeability, n and p are the concentrations of the free electrons and holes, nt and pt are the concentrations of trapped electrons and holes, and ND+ and NA− are the concentrations of the ionized donors and acceptors, respectively.
The numerically simulated J-V curves with the discrete acceptor-like gap states (a concentration of 1018 cm−3) and without any gap states in the buffer layer were illustrated in Figure 5.
The energetic band structures of the devices with/without acceptor-like defect states in the interlayer are shown in Figure 6a,b, respectively for the case under the applied voltages of 0.2 V and 0.7 V. The energy levels of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) (ELUMO) and the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO (EHOMO) of the device with traps are shown in thick solid red lines, while ELUMO and EHOMO of device without any traps are shown in thick solid black lines.
Besides, the density of acceptor-like states that have trapped electrons are shown in magenta and blue lines respectively for the cases under 0.2 V and 0.7 V. For comparison, carrier distributions of the device without traps is shown in Figure 7b.
When the net rate of the captured holes is larger than that of electrons, the density of the acceptor-like states that have trapped electrons will decrease, which will cause the narrowed trapped space charge region.
As in the case of the acceptor-like traps in the interlayer, the magnitude of the band bending from the immobile trapped space charge can be estimated as below.
The donor material PTB7—i.e., poly(thieno [3,4-b]-thiophene benzodithiophene)—and the acceptor material PC71BM, i.e., [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester, were purchased from Lumtec and used as received.
EFSEM has, however, been previously employed for SE imaging of donor–acceptor junctions in silicon with improved dopant contrast1516.
Given that polymer–fullerene OPV blends are in essence donor–acceptor bulk heterojunctions, it is therefore a natural step forward to implement EFSEM to similarly improve material contrast in the characterization of organic semiconductor films.
This method might be applied to other electron donor–electron acceptor material systems for the fabrication of solar cell devices enhanced by nanofibrillar morphologies embedding conjugated polymers and fullerene compounds.
Bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) polymer solar cells are a field of intense interest because of their flexibility, low cost, and ease of processing.1−4 The performance of these devices is known to be highly dependent on the morphology of the active layers5−9 and to suffer critically from unfavorable features such as isolated domains or dead ends.4 Therefore, a variety of methods have been explored to finely control this morphology, such as thermal annealing,8,10−12 solvent annealing,13,14 self-assembly of columnar polymer phases,15 and micropatterning.16 Recently, a different route was developed based on the use of organic nanofibers to optimize the morphology of the donor–acceptor interface.
Polymer nanorods12 and nanofibers,8 prepared by melt-assisted wetting12 or by a variety of thermally assisted processing techniques,8,17−19 have been shown to increase hole mobility, inducing higher mesoscopic order and crystallinity and enhanced donor–acceptor interfaces and ultimately leading to better device performance compared with that obtained using polymer films, because of the resulting nanoscale and possibly interpenetrating network of fibrillar components.
Systems investigated so far have mostly been limited to melts or self-assembled nanostructures made of polythiophene donors, such as core–shell nanorods or layers embedding fibrils of poly(3-hexylthiophene) or poly(3-butylthiophene) and the acceptor phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM).8,12,18−20 Developing processing methods that can extend the range of conjugated polymers used and offer higher throughput is therefore strongly desirable, in view of the exploitation of networked fibrillar morphologies to enhance the performance of BHJ solar cells at a larger scale.
More importantly, the presence of PCBM in these fibers and the formation of effective internal interfaces between the acceptor and the donor compounds in the organic filaments are supported by the reduction of the PL quantum yield found for fibers with fullerene compared to MEH-PPV/PVP fibers.
The layered structures create multiple donor–acceptor interfaces that are formed in the fibers and in the backfill layer, as well as a PCBM component possibly promoting the development of percolative paths for electrons across regions realized with different blends.
In addition, the nanofiber template not only serves as a guide path for electron transport but also increases the interfacial area between donor and acceptor to induce more exciton dissociation.
In particular, electrospun organic nanofibers can be easily doped or decorated with semiconducting quantum dots,66,67 which has been found to be an excellent route to enhancing donor–acceptor electronic interactions.68 Also, electrospinning nanofibers based on conjugated polymers electrospun in a controlled nitrogen atmosphere might lead to better charge transport because of the reduced incorporation of oxygen during fabrication.69 This methodology is likely to be extended to other donor–acceptor material systems and to flexible solar cell devices, as suggested by recent evidence on highly stable bendable field-effect transistors.70
The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels of fullerene derivatives are of great importance for considering their use as electron acceptors and hole-blocking materials in PSCs.47,48 We derived experimental values of these energy levels by cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements (Figure 2a–c), which are presented in Table 1; the methodology is further elaborated in the Supporting Information, Section 1.2.1.
Upon the formation of the perovskite/ICMA contact, electron-donating moieties in the fullerene derivatives (amine or amide groups) could form a dative bond with uncoordinated Pb2+ ions.64 The largest shift has been observed for the NHAc-Me-ICMA, which contains both oxygen and nitrogen donors.
In bulk heterojunction photovoltaic systems both the open-circuit voltage as well as the short-circuit current, and hence the power conversion efficiency, are dependent on the optical bandgap of the electron-donor material.
Using the model as an in-silico design tool, a copolymer of benzodithiophenes along with a small-molecule derivative of pentacene are proposed as optimal donor materials for organic photovoltaics.
[3] has derived an empirical formula for the power conversion efficiency (PCE) as a function of the optical gap and the relative LUMO level of the donor material.
To exemplify our intended utility of the model as an in-silico design tool, we focus on the problem of finding an appropriate donor material for bulk heterojunction (BHJ) photovoltaic devices.
In these BHJ devices, the electron donor absorbs photons to create electron-hole pairs while the acceptor material draws the electrons but not the holes from the donor.
However, higher energy excitations eventually relax down to the LUMO of the acceptor, so the open circuit voltage () can never be larger than the difference between the LUMO of the acceptor HOMO of the donor.
[3] has derived an empirical formula for the PCE as a function of the donor's optical gap and the relative LUMO levels of the donor and acceptor materials.
Assuming a suitably matched acceptor material, the most important intrinsic property to improve PCE becomes the optical gap.
Copolymers of donor-acceptor units have been leading the way in improving organic PV efficiency from 5% to 9%.
This effect is valid even when combining two typical acceptors (electron poor units), such as benzo[1,2-b:4,3-b']dithiophene (BDT) (Fig.
Furthermore, our calculations clearly show that there are no real electronic distinctions between donor and acceptor units in co-polymers, since upon photoexcitations the localized excitonic electron- and hole-wavefunctions span over both the Tt donor (Fig.
6b, green squares) and BDT acceptor units along the same -conjugated polymer backbone as shown in Fig.
The first type of SADs can induce ordered and condensed intermolecular packing to form favorable morphology through the strong charge–quadrupole interaction or σ–hole interaction, thus leading to enhanced photovoltaic performance.24−26 The second type of SADs can effectively decrease the adsorption energy of acceptors to improve π–π stacking through the attractive interaction between the SADs and acceptors, thereby resulting in an enhancement of light absorption and electron mobility.27,28 The last type of SADs with high crystallinity can form well-developed nanoscale phase separation by restricting the over self-aggregation of acceptors in the process of film formation and then facilitating the donors to access the remaining space of SADs during the TA process.29,30 Although these new strategies of SADs have shown many attractive features, the fundamental understanding of the relationship of SAD structures, active layer morphology, and OSC performance is missing.
To explore the universal influence of the SAD conformation on photovoltaic performance, two derivatives of Y6 (BTP-eC9 and L8-BO) were also chosen as the acceptors for this study.
The conformation effect of SADs on the intermolecular packing modes of acceptors were systematically investigated theoretically and experimentally, which revealed that the planar SAD2 could more easily insert between Y6 molecules than SAD1, further inducing a tighter intermolecular packing mode of Y6 after the TA process, beneficial to the charge transport mobilities, thereby resulting in significantly enhanced PCE of OSCs.
These enhanced performances were achieved by developing new electron-donor (ED) and electron-acceptor (EA) materials as well as finding the adequate morphologies in either bulk heterojunction or sequentially deposited active layers.
For instance, the formation of electron donor (ED)- and acceptor (EA)-rich phase separated domains can be either extremely positive or negative depending on the size of the domains and their relative position with respect to the electrodes.
Active layers based on newly introduced polymer donors often use the approach of solvent additives rather than solvent annealing.
This light-absorption gradient has been previously used to induce vertical donor–acceptor distributions favorable for iPSCs [65].
Herein, five novel acceptor molecules have been designed by end-capper modification of the recently synthesized molecule NTIC (R).
Further, a complex study is also performed for evaluation of charge transfer between the acceptor molecule and the donor polymer.
To overcome this problem, the scientist went to develop an organic solar containing fullerene acceptor to produce solar energy.
Due to this reason, scientists are now working on the nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) based bulk-heterojunctions organic solar cells (BHK-OSCs) due to their low cost, flexibility, good tunable energy level, large area of fabrication, transparency, and better power conversion efficiency.4−8 When a donor is blended with the acceptor, a blend is formed.
Various factors are involved in the determination of the PCE of the bulk heterojunction solar cells, like how the transfer of charge occurs from the donor region toward the acceptor region through the external field and reorganizational energy.
To achieve a higher PCE bulk heterojunction, organic solar cells should have a lesser recombination rate of electron and hole as compared to the separation rate of electron and hole.9 Moreover, the photovoltaic and optoelectronic parameters of active layer acceptor and donor molecules have been improved by using efficient end-capped, core, and donor units.10−14 The end-capped alteration along with core modification enhances the light harvesting capability of the resulting molecules.15−18 Motivated from similar reports in the valuable literature, we were inspired and also computed the photovoltaic properties of acceptor molecules by employing DFT and TD-DFT approaches.
In the nonfullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells, end-capped unit modification is one of the promising strategies for enhancing the PCE.
In the present work, end-capped group modification is done to design five novel molecules named G1–G5 (Figure 1) to checkout their optoelectronic properties like energy band gap, absorption capability, and charge transfer analysis of designed molecules with donor PTB7Th polymer.
In this project, we took the NTIC molecule as a reference molecule19 which contained naphtho[1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophene as a central core fused with diarylcyclopentadienylthiophene having 4-hexyl phenyl as a side chain and (3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-5,6-difluoro-1-indanone (2FIC) as an end-capped group.19 This theoretical strategy opens a new path for developing highly efficient organic solar cells containing nonfullerene acceptors.
Schematic diagram of near-infrared sensitive new nonfullerene acceptor structures.
In this manuscript, the modification of terminal units of acceptors of NTIC has been done with several proven best efficient end-capped groups G1–G5 as displayed in the scheme of molecular designing.
In the present work, we replaced the acceptor group of R with the different efficient groups G1–G5 to determine the enhancement in electronic and photovoltaic properties of the designed molecules.
Out of five designed molecules, G5 was found with the least energy band gap value when compared to the other designed molecules, which is because of the efficient acceptor groups.
The graph provided in Figure 5 shows that in the reference and all the designed molecules, the HOMO density lies mainly on the donor region and in the acceptor region and their distribution behavior is almost comparable with each other.
The LUMO density also mainly lies in the donor region and acceptor region in the reference molecules, but in the designed molecules, more electronic density is present in the acceptor region as compared to the reference acceptor region.
Out of five designed molecules, G5 is the one molecule in which more LUMO electronic population lies on the acceptor moiety relative to the LUMO acceptor region of other designed as well as reference molecules.
Out of five designed molecules, the G5 molecule exhibits the highest λmax absorption, which is due to the effective acceptor group.
However, all of the tailored molecules have greater λmax values as compared to the theoretical and experimental λmax values of R. This increment in the λmax value of all the designed molecules is due to powerful withdrawing end-capped groups present in the acceptor moieties.
The up-flowing order of energy of excitation of all molecules is given as G5 < G2 < G1 < G3 < G4 < R. Lower excitation energy is due to their acceptor moieties present in them.
G1 has the lowest λe value, which exhibits that it has a greater ability for electron transport from the donor region toward the acceptor region.
The electron mobility is better in G1, G2, and G4 than the reference molecule because of their acceptor moiety and their end-capped groups presents in the acceptor moiety where no electron localization exists.
To complete this assignment, we scaled the HOMO of the polymer donor with the LUMO of the acceptor molecules, i.e., our designed molecules.
Total Voc of the reference and all of the tailored molecules was determined by calculating the difference between the HOMO of the polymer donor and LUMO of the acceptor molecules.
For high Voc, the HOMO of the PTB7-Th must be lower as compared to the LUMO of the designed acceptor molecules.
In our designed project, we have taken PTB7-Th as the polymer donor due to its frequent use against our tailored acceptor molecules.
This is due to the highly efficient acceptor group (2-(5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-yl) malononitrile) present in G3.
Figure 6 presents the Voc diagram in which the HOMO of PTB7-Th is displayed with the LUMO of the acceptor molecules, and their difference represents the total Voc values.
Voc of designed and reference acceptor molecules compared to the PTB7-Th polymer donor.
The map information is very helpful in understanding the performance of the acceptor groups in the OSCs.
In this study, we portioned our engineered molecules into three parts acceptor (A), donor (D), and core (C) for easy understanding.
As we move from the bottom to the top in the plot, then electron density is diagonally shifted from the core donor and finally toward the acceptor region where the nucleophilicity is maximum.
It shows that all the engineered (G1–G5) and the reference molecules are highly efficient because the movement of the electron is in the right direction, i.e., toward the acceptor region.
However, by comparing the reference molecule with the tailored molecules, the nucleophilicity toward the acceptor region is more than the reference molecule.
Out of five tailored molecules, G5 is the excellent candidate who exhibits the highest electronic population in the acceptor part.
The second one which shows the greater shifting of the electron population toward the acceptor part is G3 in which mostly the electronic population lies in the acceptor part.
All the advancement in our designed molecules is due to the acceptor group modification, which is the substitution of the end-capped groups in the acceptor region as discussed above.
The basic need of making a complex of PTB7-Th–G5 in this study is to analyze the transfer of charge between the donor PTB7-Th and G5 as well as to confirm the attribute of our tailored molecules.
By visualizing the computed complex, it is clear that the dipole moment is oriented from PTB7-Th to the G5 acceptor molecule.
From the literature survey, it is evident that the HOMO of a molecule behaves as a donor and the LUMO of a molecule behaves as the acceptor.
This is solid proof of the transfer of charge from donor PTB7-Th toward the acceptor G5 molecule.
Thus, it is solid proof of mobility of electrons from the donor polymer toward the acceptor molecule.
Therefore, all of our engineered molecules have been confirmed acceptor materials for future utilization in manufacturing highly proficient OSCs in future.
Distribution model of HOMO and LUMO of PTB7-Th (donor) and G5.
By doing end-capped modification in the acceptor moiety of R, great improvement in the optoelectronic properties was seen.
The complex (PTB7-Th) making strategy was also found to be good in the confirmation of a better transfer of charge from the donor polymer to the acceptor molecule.
Various types of polymers and polymer composites that have the charge storage capability have been developed and tested, such as pendent polymers, donor–acceptor polyimides, and polymer composites [36].
4Structure of an organic non-volatile memory transistor with a polymer electret, based on semi-conjugated acceptor-based polyimides [37]
Structure of an organic non-volatile memory transistor with a polymer electret, based on semi-conjugated acceptor-based polyimides [37]
A series of novel double-anchoring dyes for phenoxazine-based organic dyes with two 2-cyanoacetic acid acceptors/anchors, and the inclusion of a 2-ethylhexyl chain at the nitrogen atom of the phenoxazine that is connected with furan, thiophene, and 3-hexylthiophene as a linker, are used as sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells.
Organic sensitizers usually construct with a D–π–A structure configuration, comprising of a donor (D), a π-linker (π), and an acceptor (A), which also functions as the anchor.
reported a series of phenothiazine dye with five anchors, and the result displayed that increasing the number of electron acceptors in the backbone of dyes can improve the light-harvesting ability, electrochemical properties, and suppress dark current [19].
Normally, dyes with two acceptors, D(–π–A)2, make it [20,21,22], or might not [23,24], show more efficient dark current suppressing than their D–π–A relative.
Among various electron donors, besides the use of triphenylamine as a donor for sensitizers, phenothiazine and phenoxazine electron donor units featuring unique electronic and optical properties have been introduced into a push–pull organic dye which exhibits promising efficiency.
reported a series of dyes based on thieno [2,3-f]benzofuran (BDF), by the incorporation of several donors from triphenylamine, carbazole, and phenothiazine [25].
Among these dyes, employing phenothiazine as a donor showed the highest open-circuit voltage (VOC), short-circuit photocurrent density (JSC), and PCE.
The former was assigned to the localized aromatic π–π* transitions, and the latter was attributed to an intramolecular charge-transfer (ICT) transition from the phenoxazine donor to the anchoring moiety.
The HOMOs of DP-1, DP-2, and DP-3 are delocalized on the entire molecule including acceptor, whereas the LUMO and LUMO+1 of these molecules are mainly distributed from the π-spacer acceptor to the acceptor.
On the other hand, DP-1 to DP-3 have prominent negative charges at both acceptors for both S0→S1 and S0→S2 transitions, indicating that both acceptors can function as the electron injection channels.
In summary, we reported the new phenoxazine-based organic dyes containing a 2-ethylhexyl substituent at the nitrogen atom of the phenoxazine and two 2-cyanoacrylic acids as the acceptors in addition to anchors.
SummaryFor state-of-the-art organic solar cells (OSCs) consisting of a large-bandgap polymer donor and a near-infrared (NIR) molecular acceptor, the control of the HOMO offset is the key to simultaneously achieve small energy loss (Eloss) and high photocurrent.
By designing a new family of ZITI-X NIR acceptors (X = S, C, N) with a high structural similarity and matching them with polymer donor J71 forming reduced HOMO offsets, we systematically investigated and established the relationship among the photovoltaic performance, energy loss, and hole-transfer kinetics.
We achieved the highest PCEavgs of 14.05 ± 0.21% in a ternary system (J71:ZITI-C:ZITI-N) that best optimize the balance between driving force and energy loss.Graphical AbstractHighlights•NIR acceptors with high structural similarity and variable HOMO levels were designed•We achieved the highest PCE of 14.36% by combining J71, ZITI-C, and ZITI-N acceptors•We revealed the importance of the optimized driving force on the device performanceEnergy Storage; Materials Characterization; Solid State Physics
Recent progress shows success of using non-fullerene acceptors to extend thin-film absorption, while keeping a low energy loss, achieving a balanced trade-off between Voc and Jsc (short-circuit current) to enhance power conversion efficiency (Qian et al., 2018, Menke et al., 2018, Sun et al., 2018, Zhang et al., 2018a, Zhang et al., 2018b, Zhang et al., 2018c, Xie et al., 2018, Nian et al., 2018, Fei et al., 2018, Yuan et al., 2019, Yu et al., 2019, Liu et al., 2019, Cui et al., 2019).
D-A-type non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have shown distinct advantages of highly tunable absorption and molecular energy level (Zhang et al., 2018a, Zhang et al., 2018b, Zhang et al., 2018c, Yan et al., 2018, Wadsworth et al., 2019, Cheng et al., 2018), which also exhibit efficient charge separation at a low driving force (Liu et al., 2016), a unique opportunity to minimize the Voc-Jsc trade-off.
State-of-the-art NFA-based OSCs contain wide/medium-bandgap donors and near-infrared (NIR) NFAs forming a complementary absorption.
By matching with polymer donor PBDB-TF, IT-4F-based devices (Li et al., 2018b) show a higher average power conversion efficiency (PCEavg) of 13.30 ± 0.20%, however, with an undesirably higher Eloss, 0.66 eV, compared with ITIC-based devices (Yu et al., 2018) with a PCEavg of 10.0 ± 0.1% and an Eloss of 0.58 eV.
reported very low energy offsets between PffBT2T-TT donor and O-IDTBR acceptor delivering a maximum PCE of 10.4% (Chen et al., 2018) but only with a moderate maximum external quantum efficiency (EQEmax) of 67%.
We recently developed indenoindene-based NIR acceptors NITI (Xu et al., 2017) and ZITI (Liu et al., 2018a) that exhibit high PCEs over 13% (Zhou et al., 2018).
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations (Figure 1) show that the backbone introduction of heteroatoms is an effective method in modulating HOMO energy level, whereas the LUMO energy level depends more on acceptor moieties.
Such value in couple with energy loss pictures the fundamental physics of charge separation and energy level alignment at donor-acceptor interfaces.
Detailed manipulation of hole transfer energy levels of combining double acceptor BHJ blends yielded a high PCE of 14.05 ± 0.21%.
These acceptors show good thermal stability with high thermal decomposition temperatures of 318°C, 321°C, and 323°C for ZITI-S, ZITI-C, and ZITI-N, respectively (see Figure S1).
The photophysical and electrochemical properties of ZITI-X acceptors are examined.
The absorption spectra of J71 donor and ZITI-X acceptors in thin films are shown in Figure 2A.
Frontier orbital energy levels of ZITI-X are determined by cyclic voltammetry (see Figure S2), and the energy diagram including J71 donor is presented in Figure 2B.
(B) Energy diagram of donor and acceptor materials.
(B) Energy diagram of donor and acceptor materials.
The conventional device architecture of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/active layer/PDINO/Al is adopted to evaluate photovoltaic performance of these acceptors.
We screened the donor-acceptor (D-A) weight ratio and the temperature for thermal annealing treatment.
Also, ZITI-N possesses an excellent compatibility with commercially available polymer donors (See Table S11).
We fabricated the ternary OSCs and optimized the acceptor ratios and thickness (See Tables S4 and S7).
The total energy loss Eloss can be attributed to two parts: energy loss due to charge generation (ΔE2 = Eg-ECT) and energy loss due to charge recombination (ECT-qVoc) that can be divided into the radiative (ΔE1) and non-radiative (ΔE3) recombinations.4,5 The ECT of each blend systems can be calculated by fitting the sub-gap absorption of the corresponding FTPS-EQE curves using the following equation (Vandewal et al., 2010):EQEPV(E)=fE4πλkTe−ECT+λ−E4λkTwhere EQEPV(E) is the photovoltaic external quantum efficiency, k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature (300 K in this work), and λ is the reorganization energy and f can be viewed as the interaction strength between donor and acceptor in the blends.
The steady-state absorption peaks for different acceptors and donors are well separated in spectral domain; therefore, both spectral and temporal characteristics of charge transfer dynamics can be extracted.
To investigate hole transfer, the excitation wavelength of 750 nm was selected here to excite only acceptors.
Thus, a higher driving force is critical in ensuring efficient carrier extraction from NFA acceptors to enhance Jsc.
We also investigated the photo-induced electron transfer process by exciting the J71 donor and probing its excited state absorption at 1,175 nm.
Interestingly, by changing the donor J71 to PBDB-TF, the ternary OSCs-based PBDB-TF:ZITI-C:ZITI-N achieve a higher PCE of 13.85% with simultaneously elevated Jsc and FF than the binary OSCs (Table S10).Figure 6Current and Voltage Balance Analysis(A and B) BHJ blends absorption profiles and internal quantum efficiency of J71:ZITI-C:ZITI-N binary and ternary blends.
To conclude, we achieved a panoramic understanding of the relationship between driving force and OSCs performance with a new family of NIR electron acceptors, ZITI-S, ZITI-C, and ZITI-N, possessing high structural similarity.
Among the three acceptors, ZITI-N exhibits the highest HOMO energy level and the lowest optical bandgap of 1.41 eV with an absorption onset at 879 nm.
When blended with the wide-bandgap polymer donor, J71:ZITI-N-based devices deliver the highest PCEavg of 13.47 ± 0.12% at the smallest Eloss of 0.53 eV than those of J71:ZITI-S- and J71:ZITI-C-based devices with PCEavgs of 8.86 ± 0.18% and 13.02 ± 0.13% and Elosss of 0.80 and 0.62 eV, respectively.
Furthermore, by combining ZITI-C and ZITI-N acceptors, a higher PCEavg of 14.05 ± 0.21% with an improved Jsc of 23.01 ± 0.24 mA cm−2 is achieved, which can be ascribed to the slightly increased driving force according to the detailed study on the energy loss channels.
We observed that the CT emissions gradually decreased and finally disappeared from J71:ZITI-S, J71:ZITI-C to J71:ZITI-N blends, which means that, when the active layers have both optimized morphology and excellent absorption, by narrowing HOMO offset between donor and acceptor materials, the superiority of NFAs can be fully realized.
Investigations by implementing PL quenching and EL experiments provide valuable information on the efficiency of charge separation and the magnitude of driving force, which may accelerate the donor:acceptor screening and relieve the workload from the tedious device fabrication.
In our research system, when we investigate the relationship between HOMO offset and the efficiency for charge separation, we can exclude the impact originating from the blend morphology because of the high structural similarity of ZITI-X NIR acceptors.
Whether the acceptor level of the dopant is affected by the same mechanism is an open question.
A similar shift places the dopant’s acceptor level from 0.40 eV below ZnPc (the difference between their pristine IP and EA) to 0.46 eV above the centre of the ZnPc DOS.
With the disorder described by a standard deviation \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\sigma$$\end{document}σ around 160–180 meV, as measured for ZnPc:F\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${}_{6}$$\end{document}6-TCNNQ by UPS measurements8, this value for the dopant’s acceptor level is in close agreement with our statistical description.
We numerically solve the neutrality equation for the ternary system and find that the trend of the experimental data is reproduced only by including a shift in the dopant’s acceptor level.
SnS typically has p-type conductivity, with the main contribution from Sn vacancies (VSn) acting as a shallow acceptor [18].
To date, the maximum efficiency of 12.05% has been shown by an OSC based on a composite of a donor polythiophene and an acceptor polymeric dicyanoindanone derivative [13].
Among the derivatives of isoindigo, the leading compounds are polymers 1–3, which were used in the design of OSCs as donor components of the active layer.
The constructed solar cells with an active layer based on a mixture of compounds 5 (donor) and PC61BM (acceptor) in a 1:1 ratio showed the dependence of the efficiency on the structure and position of substituents in the aromatic fragment of isoindigo.
Certain nitrogen heterocycles can be inserted into the substituent chain as an acceptor structural unit (Scheme 5).
Isoindigo structures with incorporated acceptor nitrogen heterocycles.
Therein, the key role of the structure of the acceptor terminal substituent was also revealed since a similar OSC based on the rhodamine derivative 9b showed an efficiency of only 0.66% (Table 1).
p-Alkoxyphenylene-embedded thienylisoindigo with different acceptor anchor units.
It is important to note that the replacement of the thienylphenylene spacer in structure 9a by the acceptor indan-3-dicyanoethylidene-1-one-2-ylidene fragment in compound 9c led to a decrease in the efficiency to 2.82% [22].
Perylene diimide-derived isoindigo derivative 10 was used as an acceptor in the creation of a nonfullerene OSC with thiophene polymer 11 as a donor component (Scheme 8).
constructed a three-component cell in which the active layer consisted of a donor 11 and a polymeric acceptor based on perylene diimide 12 [23].
It should be noted that in all cases mentioned here, PC71BM was used as the acceptor component of the OSC active layer.
It has been shown that oligomeric isoindigos that do not contain a thiophene fragment can also be used as donor components of the OSC.
Monothienylisoindigos bearing π-extended electron-donor backbones.
Strengthening the donor effect of the monomer unit can be achieved by lengthening the thiophene chain up to three fragments [37–41].
A slight change in the substituent at the nitrogen atom and the introduction of electron-donor methyl or electron-acceptor cyano groups in the thiophene fragment can lead to a sharp deterioration of all characteristics (structure 26: efficiency 1.94%) [39] or to their significant improvement (structure 27, efficiency 8.36%), respectively [40].
The use of compound 29c (ratio of monomer units n/m = 2:1) as an acceptor component of the OSC made it possible to achieve one of the highest efficiency values of 7.3%.
Condensed thienothiophene substituents can also be used as the donor component of the monomeric isoindigo unit (Scheme 17).
The first data on the use of these compounds as donor components of OSCs (mixed with PC61BM) showed that the technology of preparing a thin film of the active layer is important to achieve the best efficiency value [45].
Isoindigo bearing the thieno[3,2-b]thiophene structural motif as donor component of OSCs.
The effect of the length and branching of the alkyl substituent at the endocyclic nitrogen atom in a series of this type of donor polymers was investigated.
Thus, an OSC consisting of a composite based on two donor polymers (D1 and D2) and an acceptor component PC71BM (A) with a D/A weight ratio of 1:4 showed an efficiency of 7.69% with a D1 content of 15% relative to the D2 weight.
showed that such a combination of substituents provides the best miscibility of the polymer with the acceptor fullerene component, which accordingly improves the morphological and photophysical characteristics of the OSC [50].
Following this strategy, isoindigo was used as platform for the synthesis of compound 35a, combining acceptor (perylene diimide) and donor (polythiophene) fragments in the structure.
Using polymeric isoindigo 35b as an acceptor component, a nonfullerene OSC was also obtained, which showed a record efficiency of 12.03% among the composites based on isoindigo described to date [55].
Polymeric derivatives of isoindigo containing no thiophene units were also used as acceptor components of the OSCs.
Moreover, in both of the studies described in recent years, the donor component of the photovoltaic cell was variously substituted polythiophene, while the acceptor component (isoindigo platform) was functionalized with aromatic nitrogen-containing substituents of various structures (Scheme 20).
Isoindigo-based nonthiophene aza aromatic polymers as acceptor components of OSCs.
Considering the indigoid bisheterocycle as an additional photon trap, the substituted isoindigo was introduced as an acceptor substituent in the structure of the polyconjugated thiophene polymer 38 [58].
Thus, Gu et al., using the example of a donor–acceptor–donor (D–A–D) polymer 64 containing a 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene fragment, demonstrated the possibility of creating flexible IR displays based on isoindigo [112].
In particular, to improve the characteristics of organic solar cells and OFET devices based on polymer derivatives of isoindigo, some of the most important factors are the planarity of the monomer unit, the electron donor/acceptor nature, the heterocyclic substituents, and the branching of the alkyl radical at the endocyclic nitrogen atom.
In addition, the first work on combining polyaromatic acceptor and heterocyclic donor fragments in one macromolecule on the isoindigo platform showed the possibility of designing one-component nonfullerene solar cells.
(1995), which improved the carrier collection efficiency and energy conversion efficiency of polymer photovoltaic cells by blending of the poly (2-methoxy-5-(2′-ethyl-hexyloxy)-1,4-phenylene vinylene) (MEH-PPV) with C60 derivative and put forward the concept of network of internal donor-acceptor heterojunctions.
(2006) based on the existed findings to derive a relation between energy-conversion efficiency of a bulk-heterojunction solar cell, bandgap, and the LUMO level of the donor, then proposed a model to guide the material selection and material development for bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
They controlled the morphology by temperature-dependent aggregation behavior of donor polymers, poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2‴-quaterthiophen-5,5‴-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD), (poly[(2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(4′,3″-difluoro-3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,3‴-quaterthiophen-5,3‴-diyl)] (PBTff4T-2OD), poly[(naphtho[1,2-c:5,6-c′]bis[1,2,5] thiadiazol-5,1′-diyl)-alt-(3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2‴-quaterthiophen-5,5‴-diyl)] (PNT4T-2OD) and yielded high-performance thick-film polymer solar cells with efficiency exceeding 10%.
It is one of the earliest reviews about polymer solar cells which introduced some basic concepts of OPV such as bulk heterojunction, device architectures, the donor conjugated polymers, and performance improving strategy.
Then by following the development of bulk heterojunction structure and the study of the relationship between the open-circuit voltage and energy levels of donor/acceptor in bulk heterojunction polymer solar cells, Chen et al.
(2017) “molecular electron acceptors for efficient fullerene-free organic solar cells.” This paper reviewed the designing rules as well as perspectives for the development of non-fullerene acceptors.
As previous analysis, it can be found that the development of polymer solar cells with no-fullerene acceptors is an emerging trend in OPV.
Therefore, all-polymer solar cells, consisting of polymer donors and polymer acceptors, have recently been studied extensively.
They reported the perylene diimide (PDI) based n-type polymer Poly{[N,N'-bis(2-decyl-tetradecyl)-3,4,9,10-perylene diimide-1,7-diyl]-alt-(dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]thiophene-2,6-diyl)} which can be used as the acceptor of polymer solar cells (Zhan et al., 2007).
They reported the naphthalenediimide (NDI)-based copolymers as acceptors and regioregular P3HT as the donor and PCE >1% is achieved for rylene-based polymer acceptors for the first time (Schubert et al., 2012).
A serious of n-type copolymers based on PDI and NDI units were synthesized and used as the acceptor materials of all-polymer solar cell, because the unique characters of the PDI or NDI, including the high electron affinity of the rylene diimide core caused by two strong electron-withdrawing diimide groups and a highly extended π-conjugated structure that produces strong intermolecular π-π interactions.
By analyzing the articles published in 2017, it can be found that non-fullerene acceptors for high efficiency solar cells was an emerging trend in OPV.
This work shows that careful assembly of donor and acceptor material is beneficial to small molecule photovoltaic device.
As a result, a record efficiency larger than 11% is achieved in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells.1 However, some intrinsic problems hamper further improvement of BHJ organic solar cells, e.g., charge losses in donor:acceptor BHJ and a trade-off between the external quantum efficiency (EQE) and the voltage loss between the optical gap and Voc.2,3 A reduced driving force for charge separation is measured in many donor–acceptor systems with small energy level offset, although a different conclusion is given with non-fullerene acceptor recently.4–6
BHJ structure in small molecule solar cell can be prepared by co-evaporation of donor and acceptor molecules, and the donor:acceptor BHJ layer is usually sandwiched between a pure donor layer and a pure acceptor layer, which is called p–i–n structure.
For example, hexaazatriphenylene-hexacarbonitrile (HAT-CN) and copper iodide (CuI) are employed as the template molecule for copper phthalocyanine (CuPc) and zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc), respectively.8,9 Thermal annealing is another common method to produce phase segregation in the BHJ layer.10 It seems that the external force outside the donor–accepter system, such as template molecule or annealing treatment, is necessary to create phase separation in small molecule BHJ film.
For example, a thin layer of organic insulator inserted between the acceptor layer and the cathode blocks the hole transport and eliminates the exciton annihilation at the cathode effectively.11 Some semiconducting small molecules and the combination of two materials have also been used as the cathode layer in literature.12,13 Up to date, bathocuproine (BCP) is still the most often used cathode buffer insulator in small molecule solar cell.
Our result shows that the efficiency of organic solar cell can be improved by proper assembly of donor and acceptor material in both crystalline grain scale and the active layer scale based on their intrinsic properties.
It has been found that phase segregation occurs in the BHJ layer deposited on face-on ZnPc grains but not on edge-on ZnPc grains, because the formation and growth of ZnPc nuclei is less disturbed by the acceptor molecules on face-on ZnPc grains.9 However, edge-on ZnPc grains always grow on bare ITO substrate.
One problem limiting Voc in organic solar cell is a large voltage loss between the optical gap and Voc (>0.6 V).4,5 Reduction of this voltage loss can be realized by optimizing the energy level offset between donor and acceptor.
Our result shows that the performance of small molecule solar cell can be improved by considering the stacking style of small molecules and the internal filed in donor/acceptor heterojunction.
AbstractThe high‐performance organic solar cells (OSCs) tend to choose the polymers with high molecular weight as donors, which easily produce good crystallinity to facilitate intermolecular charge transfer.
Herein, a new mesopolymer, MePBDFCl H  as donor material is designed and synthesized, and firstly applied in OSCs.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5  ] With the innovation of photovoltaic materials containing polymer donor and small molecule acceptor, the photovoltaic performance of polymer solar cells (PSCs) has obtained significant improvement.
In particular, the emergence of non‐fullerene acceptors has realized high power conversion efficiency (PCE) over 18%, attaining the preliminary level of commercialization.
Indeed, to pursue high PCE, for the variously excellent non‐fullerene acceptors such as 3,9‐bis(2‐methylene‐(3‐(1,1‐dicyanomethylene)‐indanone))‐5,5,11,11‐tetrakis(4‐hexylphenyl)‐dithieno[2,3‐d:2′,3′‐d′]‐s‐indaceno[1,2‐b:5,6‐b′]dithiophene (ITIC) and (2,2′‐((2Z,2′Z)‐((12,13‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)‐3,9‐diundecyl‐12,13‐dihydro‐[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4‐e] thieno[2″,3″:4′,5′]thieno[2′,3′:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2‐g]thieno[2′,3′:4,5] thieno[3,2‐b]indole‐2,10‐diyl)bis(methanylylidene)) bis(5,6‐difluoro‐3‐oxo‐2,3‐dihydro‐1H‐indene‐2,1‐diylidene)) dimalononitrile) (Y6), et al., a reasonable match in absorption region, energy levels, and ideal morphology between acceptor and donor is necessary.
[  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  18  ] Despite these factors, strong crystalline polymer donor featuring high molecular weight also is one indispensable factor, since high molecular weight commonly accompanies by good crystallinity which facilitates intermolecular charge transfer.
[  28 ,  29 ,  30 ,  31  ] Taking two best‐known polymer donors as examples, (poly([2,6′‐4,8‐di(5‐ethylhexylthienyl)benzo[1,2‐b;3,3‐b]dithiophene]{3‐fluoro‐2[(2‐ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4‐b]thiophenediyl}))‐Th,(poly[(2,6‐(4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexylthio)‐4‐fluorothiophen‐2‐yl)‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene))‐alt‐(5,5‐(1′,3′‐di‐2‐thienyl‐5′,7′‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′‐c:4′,5′‐c′]dithiophene‐4,8‐dione)]) (PM6)[32] and poly[(2,6‐(4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl‐3‐fluoro)thiophen‐2‐yl)‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene))‐alt‐(2‐butyloctyl) thiophen‐2‐yl)‐8‐(4‐(2‐butyloctyl)‐5‐methylthiophen‐2‐yl)dithieno[3′,2′:3,4;2″,3″:5,6]benzo[1,2‐c][1,2,5]thiadiazole)]) (D18).
[  39  ] Under these circumstances, the incapable volume‐produce of high‐efficiency polymer donors with high molecular weight becomes one of archcriminal for impeding the commercialization of OSCs.
However, the mesopolymers as donor materials are infrequent in organic photovoltaic field (Figure  1 ).
Hence, designing and synthesizing a mesopolymer donor with high efficiency is an interesting research topic.
Herein, in this contribution, we reported a new mesopolymer donor, named (poly[(2,6‐(4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl‐4‐chloro‐2‐thienyl)‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]difuran))‐alt‐(2‐butyloctyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)‐8‐(4‐(2‐butyloctyl)‐5‐methylthiophen‐2 yl)dithieno[3′,2′:3,4;2′′,3′′:5,6]benzo[1,2‐c][1,2,5]thiadiazole)]) (MePBDFCl).
In the meantime, the non‐fullerene Y6 was used as acceptor in the PSCs, to match the absorption and energy levels of polymer.
The molecular structures of PBDFCl and the acceptor Y6 are showed in Figure  2a, and corresponding synthetic routes are summarized in Scheme S1, Supporting Information.
Meanwhile, all these donor materials have good thermostability with a similar decomposition temperature beyond 370 °C under nitrogen atmosphere.
The energy level diagrams of donor and acceptor display a clear comparison in Figure S2b, Supporting Information, indicating effective exciton dissociation in their interfaces.
The difference of miscibility among the three donor materials with the acceptor could form diverse microstructures, influencing the carrier lifetimes and recombination losses, thus achieving the discrepant V oc.
c) PCE values based on BDF‐based polymer and mesopolymers as donors reported since 2012 year.
According to the previous research, Y6 as a fullerene‐free acceptor has intense face‐on orientation with a (010) π–π diffraction at q = 1.768 Å–1 with relative strong crystallinity.
[  16  ] The (010) peak of Y6 was undiscovered in these blend films, indicating better miscibility between these donors and Y6.
To further investigate the miscibility between different donors withY6 acceptor, the contact angles (CA) of two different solvents (water and glycerol) on the donor neat films and Y6 films were measured.
The interfacial tensions (γ) between the donor and acceptor can be calculated by Wu model.
The appropriate miscibility in MePBDFCl H :Y6 could realize efficient intermolecular charge transfer at the donor/acceptor interface.
In this work, the emerging conjugated mesopolymer as donor materials were first constructed to solve these issues.
When blending with acceptor Y6, the MePBDFCl L  with low molecular weight and PBDFCl with high molecular weight showed little or large phase separated morphology, respectively.
In this work, several acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type fused-ring organic semiconductors (FROS) with indacenodithiophene (IDT) or indacenodithienothiophene (IDDT) as the bridging donor moiety and 1,3-diethyl-2-thiobarbituric or 1,1-dicyromethylene-3-indanone as the strong electron-withdrawing units, were deposited on the SnO2 ETL to prepare efficient planar junction PSCs.
The FROS materials have recently become popular non-fullerene acceptors in organic solar cells due to excellent characteristics such as tunable optical band gap and energy level, high electron mobility, excellent photo-thermal stability, etc.32 Normally, such molecules are composed of a ring-fused backbone with two strong electron-withdrawing groups at both ends, which usually contain Lewis-base-type functional groups such as carbonyl groups, cyano groups, and thiocarbonyl groups.
In order to accurately analyze the effect of different acceptor moiety on the molecular configuration and packing in the condensed state, single-crystal X-ray diffraction (SC-XRD) analysis was performed, and single crystals of IDT-T and IDT-I were successfully prepared by slowly diffusing methanol into their solutions in dichloromethane.36 Fig.
2(c)).37 Notably, both IDT-T and IDT-I exhibit intramolecular S⋯O   <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="13.200000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 13.200000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.017500,-0.017500)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 440 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z M0 280 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z"/></g></svg>  C short contacts with distances (2.648 Å and 2.620 Å) closer than the sum of the van der Waals radii of the S and O (3.25 Å), which can non-covalently lock the molecular conformation.38–40 This interlocked network will not only provide better molecular coplanarity but also endow closed and ordered molecular packing.36 The torsion angles between the bridging π backbones and the acceptors are 11.83° and 4.38° for IDT-T and IDT-I, respectively, indicating better planarity for IDT-I than IDT-T.
They are electron and energy acceptors with rigid spherical π-conjugation, which provides an attractive avenue to applications in cosmetics, fluid lubrication, lightweight hard plastics, and organic electronics9101112.
State-of-the-art low bandgap copolymers comprising donor and acceptor units sometimes require fine-tuning of the side-chains and the incorporation of solvent additives such as 1,8-diiodeoctane to form an ideal BHJ network39, whereas the present fullerene nanowires could pave the way towards the facile construction of BHJs with high thermal stability.
A long standing question in organic electronics concerns the effects of molecular orientation at donor/acceptor heterojunctions.
Given a well-controlled donor/acceptor bilayer system, we uncover the genuine effects of molecular orientation on charge generation and recombination.
These effects are studied through the point of view of photovoltaics—however, the results have important implications on the operation of all optoelectronic devices with donor/acceptor interfaces, such as light emitting diodes and photodetectors.
First, devices with donor molecules face-on to the acceptor interface have a higher charge transfer state energy and less non-radiative recombination, resulting in larger open-circuit voltages and higher radiative efficiencies.
Second, devices with donor molecules edge-on to the acceptor interface are more efficient at charge generation, attributed to smaller electronic coupling between the charge transfer states and the ground state, and lower activation energy for charge generation.Molecular orientation profoundly affects the performance of donor-acceptor heterojunctions, whilst it has remained challenging to investigate the detail.
The efficiencies of charge generation and recombination at a donor acceptor heterojunction depend on parameters, such as distance and molecular orientation of the donor and acceptor molecules at the interface.
It is therefore critical to understand the properties of the donor/acceptor interface which affect the efficiencies of charge generation and recombination.
The properties of the donor/acceptor interface can be studied from the point of view of photovoltaics, with implications on the performance of other devices which depend on donor/acceptor interfaces.
A fundamental issue under much debate in the organic photovoltaic (OPV) literature involves the geometry of the donor/acceptor interface: whether a face-on geometry (one where the π-faces of the donor and acceptor π-conjugated molecules or polymer chains are parallel) is favorable compared to an edge-on geometry (where the π-faces are orthogonal).
Theoretical calculations have long suggested that the nature of the donor–acceptor interface will have a large effect on the rates of charge transfer and recombination1–3, as well as charge delocalization3, 4.
A number of researchers have attempted to resolve this question experimentally with the use of controlled donor and/or acceptor orientations in planar heterojunction solar cells1, 7–14.
This has been attributed primarily to changes in the donor ionization potential (IP) (or, to a first approximation, highest occupied molecular orbital energy level), which directly affects the open circuit voltage (V OC)7–9, 11, 15–17, but has also been explained by differences in recombination rates1, 7, 12, 15.
To date, experimental studies in which the effects of molecular orientation have truly been isolated—a single materials system in which the two extremes of face-on and edge-on orientations can be accessed while maintaining abrupt donor/acceptor interfaces and identical contacts—have not been reported.
In addition, charge generation in face-on bilayers is significantly more temperature-dependent than edge-on bilayers, which may be a consequence of a larger barrier to charge generation or favorable polarization at the edge-on donor/acceptor interface.
The lattice planes further confirm that the donor layers retain their orientation through the bulk of the film to the interface with C60, and that deposition of the C60 layer does not disrupt the packing of p-SIDT(FBTTh2)2.
Thus, it can be concluded that the donor/acceptor interface is abrupt for edge-on and face-on p-SIDT(FBTTh2)2.
The J SC and the fill factor (FF) are very similar for both molecular orientations of the donor layer.
The V OC, on the other hand, is a substantial 150 mV larger when the donor molecules are face-on compared to edge-on.Table 1Solar cell characteristics of p-SIDT(FBTTh2)2/C60 devices with face-on or edge-on donor molecular orientation
Solar cell characteristics of p-SIDT(FBTTh2)2/C60 devices with face-on or edge-on donor molecular orientation
Using the same system but flipping the donor molecular orientation, the non-radiative recombination pathway has been altered, implying it is sensitive to the molecular alignment at the donor/acceptor interface.
This can be explained by a larger barrier to charge generation in the face-on bilayer due to elements such as electronic coupling between the CT states and separated states or polarization at the donor/acceptor interface.
In conclusion, we have been able to fabricate donor-acceptor bilayers with sharp interfaces and well-defined p-SIDT(FBTTh2)2 molecular orientations: either face-on or edge-on with respect to the substrate.
These orientations are preserved through the donor film to the interface with C60, with none-to-minimal diffusion at the donor/acceptor interface.
However, charge generation is more efficient when the donor/acceptor interface is edge-on, evidenced by a higher IQE.
This is attributed to reduced CT state-GS electronic coupling as well as smaller activation energy for charge generation in the edge-on bilayer, which may be a consequence of a reduced barrier between CT state and charge-separated states or favorable polarization at the donor/acceptor interface.
These results highlight that to achieve high performance in OPV, the electronic coupling for face-on donor/acceptor interactions must be reduced to eliminate geminate recombination.
Conversely, more research on non-radiative recombination is necessary in order to curtail the resulting losses and benefit from the improved charge generation in an edge-on donor/acceptor interaction.
The donor/acceptor interface in the bilayers was then imaged by HR-TEM.
[15] studied the photochemical stability of organic semiconducting donor acceptor blends under illumination and ambient conditions.
They found that the electron affinity of the acceptor determines the degradation rate of the semiconductor layer.
The absorber layer of an efficient state of the art bulk heterojunction solar cell is made of so-called donor and acceptor molecules.
As donors usually conjugated polymers, oligomers or conjugated pigments, as acceptors frequently fullerene derivatives are applied (Fig.
2Examples for donor and acceptor materials used in bulk heterojunction solar cells.
Examples for donor and acceptor materials used in bulk heterojunction solar cells.
A schematic diagram of the energy levels of a typical donor acceptor system is shown in Fig.
This binding energy exceeds the thermal energy at room temperature by an order of magnitude and electron acceptor molecules need to be added to an organic semiconductor donor to facilitate the generation of free charge carriers.
The difference in the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energies or electron affinities of the donor and acceptor material creates the driving force for the rapid transfer of an electron from the donor to the acceptor [24].
Upon photo-excitation of the acceptor moiety charge carriers can be generated via hole-transfer from the acceptor to the donor [26].
This means that both, the donor and the acceptor can contribute to the action spectrum of the solar cell.Fig.
3Energy level diagram of a donor acceptor system; IP is the ionization potentials, is the electron affinity.
Energy level diagram of a donor acceptor system; IP is the ionization potentials, is the electron affinity.
A second prerequisite for efficient charge generation is that excitons are generated within their diffusion length LD to the nearest donor–acceptor interface.
Recent measurements [27] indicate that LD is in the range of 10 nm for several prototype conjugated polymers used in bulk heterojunction solar cells, which means that an intermixing of the donor and the acceptor moieties on the nanometer scale is required.
In their manuscript the author showed that by blending the donor (poly(2-methoxy-5-(2′-ethyl-hexyloxy)-1,4-phenylene vinylene)) (MEH-PPV) and acceptor (Fullerene C60) molecules in the photoactive layer, the incident photon to electron conversion efficiency increased 10 fold compared to conventional donor–acceptor bilayer devices.
The authors attributed the observed performance increase to the large interfacial area between the donor and the acceptor material in their so-called interpenetrating phase-separated donor–acceptor network composite.
They also highlighted the importance of controlling the nano-morphology of the donor–acceptor blend which has been one of the dominate research areas during the last years [29], [30].
A very fine dispersion of the acceptor in the donor material (Fig.
Ideal charge transport could be achieved by arranging the donor and acceptor in by bilayer stack (Fig.
Highly ordered donor and acceptor domains will ensure excellent charge transport.
This nano-patterned morphology is very difficult to prepare and device manufacturing often does rely on phase separation of the donor and acceptor materials during the formation of the absorber film.
At the same time a small amount of the acceptor material may be dissolved in the donor domains or vice versa [32], [33], [34].
Several methods are available today to optimize the interfacial area between the donor acceptor phases.
diiodooctane or dithiols) resulted in improved donor–acceptor arrangements.Fig.
(a) Fine mixture of donor and acceptor molecules, (b) bilayer arrangement, (c) ideal morphology of a bulk heterojunction solar cells and (d) typical morphology of a solution processes device.
(a) Fine mixture of donor and acceptor molecules, (b) bilayer arrangement, (c) ideal morphology of a bulk heterojunction solar cells and (d) typical morphology of a solution processes device.
As discussed below, the required difference in the electron affinities of the donor and acceptor moieties causes such an intrinsic loss which is not present in conventional inorganic solar cells.
In most of the models the power conversion efficiency of organic solar cells not only depends on the optical bandgap but also on difference of the electron affinities of the donor an acceptor moieties.
On top of the HTL the photoactive layer, a blend of donor and acceptor material is coated followed by an optional electron transport layer (ETL) and a low work function electrode.
Either by modifying the work function of the electrode material, by applying an interfacial layer [18] or by using transparent oxides like zinc oxide [39] or titanium dioxide [40] a selective contact to the acceptor material in the active layer is formed.
The maximum theoretical efficiency that can be derived as a function of the band gap of a conjugated polymer, when electrons loose 1 eV during electron transfer to an electron acceptor, is shown in Fig.
8(a) Schematic diagram of the energetic levels of a donor acceptor system.
(a) Schematic diagram of the energetic levels of a donor acceptor system.
derived “Design Rules for Donors in Bulk-Heterojunction Solar Cells” and concluded that 10% energy-conversion efficiencies are achievable for donor–acceptor organic solar cells [58].
A systematic study on a large set of donor polymers combined with the acceptor molecule PCBM ([6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl) revealed that the open circuit voltage of optimized solar cells can be empirically calculated by(1)Voc−1e(EHOMODONOR−ELUMOAcceptor)−0.3 V
The energies of the donor HOMO-level and the acceptor LUMO-level are given in electron volts.
Durrant and coworkers [62], [63] highlighted the impact of charge carrier recombination and the microstructure of the donor acceptor blend on the open circuit voltage of bulk heterojunction solar cells.
9Contour plot showing the power conversion efficiency of a bulk heterojunction solar cell with PCBM as acceptor material (LUMO level 4.3 eV).
Contour plot showing the power conversion efficiency of a bulk heterojunction solar cell with PCBM as acceptor material (LUMO level 4.3 eV).
Minnaert and Burgelman [67] developed a realistic optical absorbance model for OPV by introducing a finite bandwidth of the photoactive layer and assuming an open circuit voltage given by the donor-HOMO minus the acceptor-LUMO difference times a so-called voltage factor f. With a ΔLUMO of 0.3 eV they calculate maximum efficiencies in the range of 5–15% depending on the spectral width of the absorption window of the organic semiconducting absorber blend, the voltage factor, the electrical fill factor and the external quantum efficiency.
In summary, the empirical models discussed here suggest that efficiencies in the range of 10–15% can be achieved by optimizing the LUMO-LUMO offset of the donor–acceptor system and the band gap of the solar cell.
In Table 3 the results including the optimum gap are summarized.Table 3Summary estimates of ultimate power conversion efficiency of organic donor acceptor solar cells.AuthorEfficiency (%)Optimum band gap (eV)Coakley et al.
Summary estimates of ultimate power conversion efficiency of organic donor acceptor solar cells.
[59] on the charge transfer complex in bulk heterojunction solar cell revealed that the minimum open circuit loss amounts to 0.6 eV compared to the lower bandgap either of the donor and the acceptor.
They also observe a linear relation between the open circuit voltage and the HOMO–LUMO difference of the donor acceptor pair and the Voc and the energetic position of the charge transfer complex emission.
They found that1.Optical losses.2.Exciton losses due to insufficient transport of excitons to the next donor–acceptor interface or due to inefficient exciton dissociation.3.Non-radiative recombination losses.4.Charge carrier collection losses due to insufficient mobilities.
Exciton losses due to insufficient transport of excitons to the next donor–acceptor interface or due to inefficient exciton dissociation.
The by far most dominant loss was attributed to non-radiative recombination at the donor–acceptor interface.
On the one hand all generated excitons should be dissociated at a donor–acceptor interface, which does lead to a strong quenching of the photoluminescence (PL).
In summary, the detailed balance approach and thermodynamic considerations suggest that organic donor–acceptor-type solar cells can be as efficient as their inorganic counter parts.
Ultimately, for ɛ > 10 the donor–acceptor concept could be abandoned as exciton could be split into free charge carriers at room temperature via thermal activation.
Electron transfer and subsequent charge separation across donor-acceptor heterojunctions remain the most important areas of study in the field of third-generation photovoltaics.
Charge transfer (CT) across specific contacts with a donor material able to transport positive carriers, on the one side, and an acceptor material constituting an electron transmitting medium, on the other side, prevents the charge recombination and allows the build-up of a significant photovoltage across the device.
They are, therefore, commonly referred to as donor-acceptor heterojunction (DAH) photovoltaic systems.
1(a)] are constituted by a monolayer of a molecular dye adsorbed on nanocrystalline titanium dioxide particles sintered together as to form a highly porous, continuous framework.1 The latter acts as the acceptor and the electron-transporting medium.
The donor can be either a liquid electrolyte containing a redox couple or a solid-state organic hole-transport material (HTM).2 The functioning principle of this type of photovoltaic system is based on the kinetic competition between various electron transfer processes.2–4 The initial charge separation, in particular, requires that electron injection from the dye's photoexcited state into the conduction band (CB) of TiO2 occurs before radiative and non-radiative deactivation or reductive quenching by the donor take place.
Energetic scheme and typical architecture of various types of photovoltaic systems based on donor-acceptor heterojunctions: (a) Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), (b) Polymer OPV bulk heterojunction cells, and (c) Planar small-molecule-based OPV and perovskite solar cells.
Charge injection into the continuum of acceptor levels constituted by the conduction band of the semiconductor is intriguing by several aspects.
Upon photoexcitation, localized (Frenkel) excitons are generated that need to diffuse to the interface with an acceptor material—typically the fullerene soluble derivative phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM)—and dissociate before they recombine.
Electrons injected in the acceptor material are thus separated from holes that remain on the other side of the heterojunction.
Ultrafast spectroscopy techniques are then applied to clarify how charges are generated, which involves light absorption, splitting of the exciton at a donor-acceptor junction, and separation of the ensuing electron-hole pair to charges that can be transported to the electrodes and extracted as photocurrent.
Efficient photovoltaic systems currently rely on a thin solid-state film of a mixed cation, mixed halide perovskite semiconductor, sandwiched between two donor and acceptor materials [Fig.
More recently, new types of dye sensitizers of the donor-bridge-acceptor (D-B-A) type have been introduced as promising alternatives.
By considering systematic variations in the donor, bridge, and acceptor moieties, dyes can be engineered and tailored for optimal optical properties.
To gain first insights into the charge-transfer (CT) properties of these systems, the excited state dynamics of N-phenyl piperindone-malondinitrile (DA1) was investigated as prototypical example of a donor-σ bridge-acceptor molecule.19 In DA1, the N-phenyl unit serves as the electron donor, while the dicyanoethylene acts as the electron accepting moiety and the central piperidine unit connects both via three saturated σ-bonds.
Push-pull dye-sensitizers based on a donor-π bridge-acceptor (D-π-A) structure allowed to reach the best photovoltaic performances up to date.
Moreover, their spectral properties can be easily tuned by standard synthetic methods.20 Typical donors are based on coumarin, indoline, tetrahydroquinoline, triarylamine, heteroanthracene, and carbazole, while a group with the dual role of acceptor and anchoring is commonly a cyanoacrylic acid, but can be substituted with a carboxylic acid, benzoic acid, alcohol, or cyano anchor.
The dependence of the charge transfer upon the donor-acceptor distance, the π-conjugation length and the coupling of the dye with TiO2 were studied by performing systematic structural and, therefore, electronic alterations to different series of dyes.21 Ultrafast pump-probe spectroscopy was used as a tool for monitoring the charge transfer within the molecule and into oxide substrates and was systematically backed by theoretical modelling using DFT calculations.22
Hence, the π-extension of the donor sites, for instance, leads to a strong red shift of the absorption features and a variation in light-harvesting properties.
Modification of the anchoring group that gather the roles of physical anchor and electron acceptor was performed with UV dyes.
The electronic push through donor-π-acceptor systems can be enhanced with a fluorine donor bridged by a cyclopentadithiophene to a cyanoacrylic acid acceptor in the dye JF4199.26 This sensitizer showed performances superior to previous organic dyes with a conversion efficiency of 10.3% in the presence of a cobalt electrolyte.
In the case of the SM315 molecule, the zinc porphyrin chromophore (C) is intercalated between the triarylamine donor moiety (D) and the π-conjugated bridge (π).
Important efforts have therefore been made to design dyes with panchromatic light harvesting abilities via systematic variations and computational design of the donor, acceptor, or bridge components.
In an attempt to vary the donor moiety, an ullazine unit was employed with the porphyrin as π-bridge to design the novel dye SM63.30 The UV-vis absorption spectrum showed an important perturbation of the Sorbet and Q-bands due to the ullazine's substantial electron donating character leading to an improved absorption of green and red light compared with other D-π-A porphyrin-based dyes.
Combining the findings from systematic variations of donor, bridge and acceptor, it was possible to design a new sensitizer with the currently top photovoltaic conversion efficiency of 13.0% under solar AM1.5 irradiance.31 These findings were predicted and rationalized by linear response TDDFT calculations that showed that the HOMO was localized on the donor and was not disturbed by the choice of the acceptor.
The LUMO showed an important localization toward the BTD moiety of the acceptor explaining the enhanced CT character of the HOMO-LUMO transition.
On the contrary, the charge mobility is substantially lower and experiences rapid relaxation in blends with an organic donor material.44
The averaged microscopic displacement of charges at the planar heterojunction results in the macroscopic perturbation of the electric field in the donor and in the acceptor layers.
The free carrier formation process in a planar bilayer OPV cell based on the heterojunction between a solid thin film of the cyanine dye CY3-P and evaporated C60 as an acceptor material was studied by using ultrafast electroabsorption spectroscopy.45 The important advantage of the transient Stark effect technique when applied to planar heterojunction solar cells is that it allows to distinguish between the electron and hole motions by analyzing different spectral regions, as long as electroabsorption (EA) of the donor and acceptor materials are spectrally separated (Fig.
The motion of holes in the small molecule donor material during the charge separation was found to be insignificant.46
The screening dynamics of the electroabsorption signal were related to electron and hole drift to the perovskite | acceptor and perovskite | HTM interfaces, respectively [Fig.
The TREAS technique measures electron and hole transport to the acceptor interface and not carrier injection from the perovskite into the acceptor.
Simplified band alignment diagram for ETM | MAPbI3 | HTM double donor-acceptor heterojunctions.
Several ultrafast spectroscopy techniques have been developed with the aim of providing the necessary tools to scrutinize charge carrier dynamics at donor-acceptor heterojunctions that are central to third-generation photovoltaic and LED devices.
As demonstrated in the work of Takui 12 ,  13  and Morita, 14 ,  15  trioxo‐triangulene and like derivatives have proven as excellent electron acceptors with very high thermal stability in conducting materials.
Strong intermolecular interactions of the triangulene scaffold, as a result of mixing of the singly occupied molecular orbitals (SOMOs), 16  provide self‐assembly ability of the triangular‐shaped acceptor.
The light‐harvesting and donor‐and‐acceptor capabilities of SubPc paired with the acceptor and photophysical properties of the triangulene‐4,8‐dione scaffold make these two molecules powerful molecular building blocks for the formation of tunable donor–acceptor dyad systems or novel non‐fullerene acceptors with acceptor properties altered relative to the individual units as a consequence of being linked together.
Indeed, calculations predict SubPc derivatives to be efficient donor molecules in photovoltaics devices, 11 ,  20 ,  21 and, for example, SubPc derivatives with bithiophene or quaterthiophene as axial ligands were experimentally used as donors together with C60 as the acceptor.
Indeed, being able to tailor donor and acceptor HOMO and LUMO energy levels as well as spectral window for light absorption with precision is crucial for a rational design of organic materials.
23 ,  24 ,  25  For example, the open circuit voltage for a donor–acceptor system, corresponding to the maximum voltage that can be drawn from a photovoltaic device, relates to the HOMO and LUMO energies of the donor and acceptor.
For the first oxidation wave of 5, an expected lower oxidation potential (E ox,1 = 1.01 V) was observed, in line with increased donor strength of the triangulene core.
X‐Ray crystallographic analyses of 2, 4, 5, and 6 confirm the power of triangulene self‐assembly as a tool for morphologic control in the solid state, especially underlined by the self‐assembled formation of alternating donor and acceptor domains within the crystal packing of 2.
Non-fullerene-based chromophores with end-capped acceptor modification used in organic solar cells (OSCs) have proven to offer improved performance.
Therefore, eight unique benzothiophene-based molecules (D2–D9) were designed by the end-capped acceptor manipulation of a reference molecule (R1).
Subsequently, end-capped acceptor modification was proven to be an effective method to achieve desired optoelectronic characteristics.Non-fullerene-based chromophores with end-capped acceptor modification used in organic solar cells (OSCs) have proven to offer improved performance.
Over the last few years, the performance of organic solar cells has dramatically improved, particularly due to the synthesis of small compounds such as non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) that can cost-effectively produce an impressive photovoltaic response.1,2 Organic compounds such as non-fullerene electron acceptors have improved solar light-emitting performance and energy efficiency.3 Currently, organic solar cells based on NFAs have a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 18%.
The applications of NFAs with an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) structure have been receiving increasing attention due to their charge mobilities, long-range absorption, and fine-tuned energy levels.4 The most powerful NFAs have A–D–A structures, with a fused electron-donating core and two electron-accepting end groups.
Therefore, a lot of researchers are working on acceptors other than the fullerene A–D–A structure with optimized charge dispersions, absorption, and energy levels5 to improve the PCE values.6 For quite a long time, silicon was considered the most suitable material for use as a semiconductor in photovoltaic devices.
OSCs as an attractive renewable energy platform offer advantages in terms of their flexibility, strength, tunable energy levels, wide area for fabrication and low cost.11 Fullerene-based OSCs offer a notable PCE of 12% in bulk heterojunctions (BHJs), affording a sufficient short-circuit current (Jsc) and open-circuit voltage (Voc).12 OSCs in combination with fullerene acceptors can achieve high isotropic charge mobility13 and low reorganization energy.
Despite their good performance, limitations such their high cost, non-tunable capacity of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy, reduced absorption of sunlight in the visible region, low Voc, high band gap and poor morphological reliability make fullerene acceptors less efficient.14 To overcome these downsides, scientists are working on designing organic photovoltaic materials based on non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).
These non-fullerene organic photovoltaic (NF-OPV) materials are good replacements for their fullerene counterparts due to their acclaimed properties such as extended light-absorption ability, low voltage loss, easy molecular engineering for fabrication, solubility, tunable energy levels, and high morphological and photochemical stability.15 Most of the organic non-fullerene acceptor dyes retain the acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) backbone architecture.
The A–D–A combination comprises a central electron-donating core unit blended with two sideways end-capped acceptor moieties.
Selecting proper electron-donor and -acceptor components can significantly reduce the HOMO–LUMO energy gap, increase the PCE and improve the photovoltaic properties of non-fullerene-based OSCs.
Appropriate arrangement of the acceptor, donor and acceptor plays a vital role in designing potential organic compound dyes.
Keeping in mind the above discussion, we utilized R1, an NF-SMA with benzothiophene dioxide (BO) terminal groups attached to phenyl side moieties, as a reference molecule.18 A series of eight new fullerene-free acceptor chromophores has been developed from R1.
End-capped acceptor modifications were brought about in the reference chromophore.
This work used the DFT technique to study the optoelectronic properties of eight novel fullerene-free acceptor molecules (D2–D9) designed via structural manipulation at the terminal acceptors.
For this, ITBCR19 was selected as the parent molecule, comprising a central benzo[b]thiophene-3(2H)-one 1,1-dioxide core unit linked by (Z)-2-(2-ethylidene-1,1-dioxidobenzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-ylidene)malononitrile, which acts as a donor (D) moiety along with terminal electron-withdrawing acceptor (A) units.
Schematic of the non-fullerene acceptor units.
We changed the terminal acceptors of R1 with various well-known end-capped acceptors to explore and boost the optoelectronic and photophysical properties of OSCs.
The electrical and optical properties of R1 and D2–D9 were studied via FMO analysis.20 The HOMO is generally an electron donor, whereas the LUMO is considered to be an electron acceptor.
In D2, a reduction in the band gap (2.000 eV) is found due to the addition of a thiophene ring and chloro (–Cl) groups at the acceptor moiety, which may enhance the electron-withdrawing effect along with the resonance.
The band gap in D3 (1.851 eV) is found to decrease because the –Cl groups are replaced with nitro (–NO2) groups at the acceptor unit.
In the case of compound D4, an increase in the band gap (1.967 eV) is found compared to that of D3, as the –NO2 groups at the acceptor are replaced with trifluoromethyl (–CF3) groups.
This might be due to –CF3 exhibiting a lower electron-withdrawing ability than the –NO2 group.25 Further decline in the band gap is found in D5 (1.891 eV), in which the –CF3 groups at the acceptor unit are replaced with sulfonic acid (–SO3H) groups.
Moreover, with the replacement of the –SO3H group with the acetic acid (–CH3COOH) group at the acceptor moiety, the ΔE of D6 (1.970 eV) is found to increase.
The band gap of D7 (1.892 eV) is less than that of D6 (1.970 eV) because of the replacement of –CH3COOH with –CN groups at the acceptor moiety.
In compound D8, the band gap (2.132 eV) is observed to increase compared to that of D7 (1.892 eV) because of the removal of one fragment (2-ethylidene-3-methylene-succinonitrile) from the acceptor unit.
Finally, the energy gap of D9 (2.103 eV) is observed to decrease compared to that of D8 (2.132 eV) because of the replacement of a benzene ring with a thiophene ring into the system at the terminal acceptor.
Generally, the HOMO density lies over the central donor unit and a slight amount of it is over the peripheral acceptors; whereas for the LUMO, the electronic cloud is found predominantly over the end-capped acceptor moieties, and a little amount of it is concentrated over the central donor, except for D5 and D8, where the charge is located over the central part (Fig.
D3 showed a maximum absorption wavelength of 794.516 nm, the furthest away from the experimental outcome for the parent chromophore (711 nm).29 It also exhibited the lowest E among the reference and derivatives due to its strong electron-withdrawing nitro group in the acceptor unit, with an excitation energy of 1.561 eV.
The lowest value of λmax is in the case of D8 (682.657 nm) due to the attachment of a weakly electron-withdrawing end-capped acceptor group.
We separated our compounds into two groups for the purpose of explaining the DOS analysis, i.e., the central donor and sideways acceptors, as shown with black and red lines in the maps, respectively.
The electronic distribution patterns on the acceptors for R1 and D2–D9 are found to be 23.9%, 23.1%, 23.7%, 23.1%, 23.6%, 23.1%, 23.6%, 22.0% and 22.8% for the HOMO and 66.5%, 79.4%, 83.8%, 79.8%, 81.7%, 80.8%, 82.3%, 70.4% and 75.4% for the LUMO, respectively.
Similarly, the donor contributes 76.1%, 76.9%, 76.3%, 76.9%, 76.4%, 76.9%, 76.4%, 78.0% and 77.2% to the HOMO and 33.5%, 20.6%, 16.2%, 20.2%, 18.3%, 19.2%, 17.7%, 29.6% and 24.6% to the LUMO in R1 and D2–D9, respectively.37 For the HOMO, the charge density is predominantly present on the donor moiety but partly on the acceptor units, whereas the LUMO is found mostly on the acceptor components, as shown by the green and red peaks in the maps.
DOS analysis revealed a high degree of charge coherence from the central donor to the end-group acceptor region, especially near the end-capped groups, as well as a significant delocalization of the electronic structure, as discussed in the FMO analysis.
The Voc is an important parameter that plays a vital role in determining the working potential of OSCs38,39 and is defined as the highest electric current that can readily be obtained from an optical material.40 Certain key factors, such as light intensity, light source, charge-carrier recombination, external fluorescence proficiency and work functions of the electrodes, greatly affect the Voc.41 The Voc can be calculated by taking the difference of the HOMO of the donor polymer molecule and the LUMO of the acceptor molecule.
To achieve a higher Voc, the LUMO of the acceptor moiety should be higher than the HOMO of the donor, as this reduces the band gap.42 The theoretically computed results of Voc, calculated using the equation given by Scharber et al.,43 are presented in Table 5.1Voc = (|EDHOMO| − |EALUMO|) − 0.3Here, E denotes the elementary charge of the acceptors, signifying the charge on each molecule, and 0.3 is the empirical constant.
A well-known donor polymer, PM6,44 with HOMO/LUMO energies of 5.171 and −2.524 eV, respectively, has been utilized to examine the Voc values, as shown in Table 5.
The computed Voc value of the reference chromophore shows excellent agreement with its experimental value of 0.86 V,19 which indicated the suitable selection of the level of theory for our study of the photovoltaic properties of R1 and D2–D9, whose LUMOacceptor values are 1.3, 1.395, 1.131, 1.322, 1.182, 1.352, 1.186, 1.576 and 1.574 V, respectively.
6 that the LUMO level of the acceptor molecules (R1 and D2–D9) lies below the HOMO of the donor PM6 polymer.
This kind of placement of molecular orbitals enables facile transfer of the electron cloud from PM6 to the acceptor, leading to enhanced optoelectronic behavior.
The TDM approach is crucial for estimating the excited state phenomena of electronic excitation and electron–hole localization.45,46R1 and D2–D9 are split into two segments: the acceptor (the end-capped molecule: A) and donor (the core component: D).
7 indicates that effective charge is present at the terminal acceptor moieties, as higher-electron intensity green and red spots can be seen over those portions.
According to the results obtained from the TDM heat maps, it has been observed that the electronic charge is efficiently transferred in a diagonal way from the donor to the acceptor in all the derivatives without trapping, thus showing charge coherence.
Low-binding-energy molecules have a high power conversion efficiency and a high current charge density (Jsc).48,49Eqn (2) was used to compute the Eb of the R1 and D2–D9 acceptor molecules, where EH–L represents the energy difference between the HOMO and LUMO.2Eb = EH–L − Eopt
Furthermore, TDM analysis demonstrated that the end-capped substituents could rapidly extract electron density, resulting in an increased charge-transfer rate when tailored with the acceptors.
Moreover, the Voc was also estimated with regards to HOMOPM6–LUMOacceptor and all the derivatives show comparable voltage results with the reference molecule.
In early 2019, we reported a non-fullerene acceptor (named Y6) that can simultaneously achieve high external quantum efficiency and low voltage loss for OSC.
Importantly, such molecular packing leads to (i) the formation of delocalized and emissive excitons that enable small non-radiative voltage loss, and (ii) delocalization of electron wavefunctions at donor/acceptor interfaces that significantly reduces the Coulomb attraction between interfacial electron-hole pairs.
These properties are critical in enabling highly efficient charge generation in OSC systems with negligible donor-acceptor energy offset.Y6, as a non-fullerene acceptor for organic solar cells, has attracted intensive attention because of the low voltage loss and high charge generation efficiency.
Additional energy is typically required for electron-hole separation at the donor/acceptor interfaces, which leads to large energy (voltage) loss between the optical gap Eoptonset and eVOC, where VOC denotes the open-circuit voltage.
This deficiency manifests particularly in OSCs that use fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors, with energy losses typically in the range of 0.8–1.0 eV depending on the choice of polymer donors.
These non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) not only exhibit stronger light absorption and wider tunability of spectral range and energy levels, but also enable much reduced energy losses below ~0.6 eV, which lead to OSCs with PCEs outperforming those based on fullerenes9–11.
Among these NFAs, the family of the A-D-A type molecules (where A denotes an electron-poor/acceptor moiety and D, an electron-rich/donor moiety), typically composed of linearly fused conjugated ring as the middle D core, such as indacenodithienothiophene (IDT), have shown promising results with PCEs up to 13–14%12–14.
Although the energy levels of NFA-based acceptors can be easily tuned to minimize the offset between the polymer donor and NFA ionization energies or electron affinities (or, in less rigorous terminology, between their highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) or lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies) in order to reduce voltage loss15,16, there remains a significant tradeoff between achieving low voltage loss and high charge-generation efficiency17,18.
In early 2019, we reported an acceptor Y6 based on a core unit, dithienothiophen[3.2-b]-pyrrolobenzothiadiazole (TPBT), corresponding to a A–DA′D–A molecular configuration with a curved molecular geometry (Fig. 1a)19.
When blended with a donor polymer PBDB-T-2F (Supplementary Fig.
The HOMO offset between donor and acceptor is ~0.05 eV.
This material design have triggered extensive investigations over the past year aiming to further improve the performance of OSCs by fine tuning the Y6-based acceptor molecular structures26–28, introducing ternary blend systems29–31 and using new donor polymers32,33, leading to further increase in the device efficiency.
It has been proposed that studies of the single-crystal structure of Y6-based molecules could be useful in revealing the intrinsic properties of the acceptor25,35.
However, to better evaluate the structure-property relationship of the OSCs, the molecular packing of the acceptor in the BHJ film and how such packing can affect the electronic processes at the acceptor/donor interface need to be studied in order to provide better understanding on the origin of the high-performance devices.
We find that the distinctive π-π molecular packings of the Y6 molecules not only exist in the single crystal but also the spin-coated films, which facilitates: (i) the formation of delocalized and emissive excitons that can be effectively populated from the CT state, leading to small non-radiative voltage loss; (ii) efficient delocalization of electron wavefunctions at the donor/acceptor interfaces, which significantly reduces the interfacial Coulomb attraction of the CT state.
This distinctive 3D effective hole transport network in acceptor may be favorable for effective hole transfer between donor and acceptor regardless of the acceptor molecular orientation at the donor/acceptor interfaces and can also minimize the hole transport distance in the acceptor domains for efficient hole transport, thus facilitating the overall hole transport in the BHJ blend (discussed below).
While we have revealed a distinctive packing structure in the Y6 single-crystal, it is important to evaluate whether or not this molecular packing is preserved in the spin-coated thin films of pristine Y6 and bulk-heterojunction blend involving the polymer donor (PBDB-T-2F).
The labels for the acceptor moieties are shown in Fig. 1a.
The blue lines represent the data from the pristine acceptor films and the orange lines, the data from the donor/acceptor blends.
The labels for the acceptor moieties are shown in Fig. 1a.
The blue lines represent the data from the pristine acceptor films and the orange lines, the data from the donor/acceptor blends.
The capability for hole transport may also provide shortcut for hole transport across the gap of the polymer donor domains in the BHJ blend, because the HOMO offset between PBDB-T-2F and Y6 is very small (~0.05 eV) which makes the hole transfer between donor and acceptor possible42.
Therefore, such distinctive ambipolar property of the acceptor will facilitate the overall hole transport in BHJ systems with small energy offsets for more efficient charge transport and collection.
c Natural transition orbitals of the interfacial CT states by using the TD-ωB97XD/6-31G(d,p) method coupled with the PCM model for molecular clusters (left: one PBDB-T-2F donor fragment with one Y6 molecule; right: one PBDB-T-2F donor fragment with three Y6 molecules).
Due to the delocalization of the electron wavefunction, the estimated distance (de–h) between the hole and electron at the donor/acceptor interface increases from 22 Å for one Y6 molecule to 51 Å for clusters of three Y6 molecules.
c Natural transition orbitals of the interfacial CT states by using the TD-ωB97XD/6-31G(d,p) method coupled with the PCM model for molecular clusters (left: one PBDB-T-2F donor fragment with one Y6 molecule; right: one PBDB-T-2F donor fragment with three Y6 molecules).
Due to the delocalization of the electron wavefunction, the estimated distance (de–h) between the hole and electron at the donor/acceptor interface increases from 22 Å for one Y6 molecule to 51 Å for clusters of three Y6 molecules.
It was established that the ∆VOC,nr can be minimized by: (1) reducing the energy offset between donor and acceptor to obtain similar energies of the local-exciton (LE) state and the CT state, and (2) enhancing the luminescent efficiency of the low-gap component in the blend16.
4b), in the context of our recent three-state model43, it implies that the energy difference between the LE state and the CT state, ΔGLE-CT (i.e., the driving force for exciton dissociation), must be very small, which is consistent with the very small ionization energy (HOMO) offset (0.05 eV) between donor and acceptor in the PBDB-T-2F:Y6 system.
We consider that the 3D hole transport network of Y6 clusters regardless of molecular orientation may also help to promote hole transfer between donor and acceptor at the interface.
Despite the significant improvement over traditional OSCs based on fullerene acceptors, we note that the performance of non-fullerene OSCs is still limited by the relatively large voltage losses of ~0.54 eV due to the relatively large ∆VOC,nr16,45.
More crucially, the delocalized nature of the electron wavefunction in Y6 clusters significantly improves the charge generation efficiency at the donor/acceptor interfaces.
4c, due to the electron delocalization in a Y6 cluster (with three Y6 molecules, which were observed in above MD simulation), the estimated distance (de–h) between the hole and electron at the donor/acceptor interface increases from 22 Å (for one Y6 molecule) to 51 Å.
Therefore, we believe that weak Coulomb bound electron-hole pairs at the donor/acceptor interface in Y6 system could be one reason for that small activation energy for CT separation.
Finally, as ternary blend is a quite widely used approach to further improve the OSC performance, we therefore also studied the molecular packing of Y6 in the ternary blend containing small amount of PC71BM acceptor and evaluate the device properties.
In summary, we have reported a systematic study combining both experimental and theoretical modeling analyses to establish structure-property-performance relationships in state-of-the-art OSCs based on an efficient non-fullerene acceptor, Y6.
When it blends with the donor polymer (PBDB-T-2F) with a small HOMO energy offset, this distinctive feature could facilitate effective hole transfer and charge collection.
Secondly, the delocalization of electron wavefunctions at donor/acceptor interfaces significantly reduces the Coulomb attractions of hole and electron pairs, leading to reduced barrier for the CT-state dissociation.
The solutions of Y6 based systems (both binary and ternary blend solutions are using the weight ratio of donor to acceptor as 1:1) were prepared in CF (0.5% CN), respectively, and stirred on a hot plate at 50 °C over night.
For pristine films, 200 acceptor molecules were used in the simulation.
For blends, the polymer to acceptor ratio was kept at 1:1 by weight.
The use of the charge transporting interlayer with high charge selectivity is paramount for achieving high-efficiency thin-film organic photovoltaics (OPVs), in which the active layer is composed of bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) with conjugated polymers (donors) and fullerene derivative-based acceptors or non-fullerene acceptors [1,2,3,4,5,6,7].
2.5 wt % BHJ solution was prepared by mixing the donor and acceptor materials in a weight ratio of 1:1.5 in a mixture solvent comprising 3 v% of 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) in chlorobenzene.
The donor and acceptor materials were poly((4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl)(3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl)) (PTB7, purchased from 1-Material) and the fullerene derivative [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM, purchased from Nano-C), respectively.
The spin statistical factor of triplet–triplet annihilation, η, is almost always discussed in terms of nine pure-spin triplet-pair encounter complexes: one spin-0 singlet, three spin-1 triplets, and five spin-2 quintets.24−29 At first glance, this might suggest that ; however, measurements of triplet–triplet annihilation upconversion (TTA-UC) efficiencies greatly exceeding this limit demonstrate that this is not the case25,30 (in TTA-UC, annihilating triplets are first sensitized on acceptor molecules by energy transfer from photoexcited donor species7,8,23,24).
Next, we investigate the triplet-pair character, energy levels, internal conversion rate constants and reverse intersystem crossing in rubrene, the most common acceptor molecule for near-infrared-to-visible TTA-UC.8,29 Based on these experimental results, we present an updated model for the spin statistics of upconversion that includes the effects of intertriplet exchange coupling and orientation, as well as internal conversion rate constants, energy levels and reverse intersystem crossing.
If the internal conversion is slow in comparison to triplet-pair fusion and separation, or if high-level reverse intersystem crossing38,39,59,60 (HL-RISC) channels 3(TT) states to S1 via T2, the spin statistical factor can approach unity.39 In the following, we investigate these factors in turn in the context of rubrene, the most common acceptor molecule for near-infrared-to-visible TTA-UC.
The quantum yield of TTA-UC is generally written as2428where ΦISC, ΦTET, and ΦPL are the quantum yields of intersystem crossing (or more generally triplet production) on the donor species, triplet energy transfer from donor to acceptor, and acceptor fluorescence, respectively.
We suggest that the origin of the commonly observed 40% value for acceptors such as DPA7,8,39,54,91−95 is therefore considerably more subtle than has been assumed to date.
Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) are an interesting alternative to fullerenes or small molecules as the electron acceptor material for the active layer of organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices due to the high current mobility and large aspect ratio [1,2,3,4,5].
The optical absorption and luminescence of CTS are often weak and masked by the corresponding signals from the other species (singlet and triple excitons, free charges) in the donor/acceptor composite.
This correlation arises because the CTS precursor (the exciton formed upon light absorption by the donor or acceptor part of the composite) has a definite electron spin, usually zero (the singlet exciton).
Later, OOP ESE was successfully used for determining the length of initial photo-induced electron transfer in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers and plant photosystems [18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26] and also in model donor–acceptor compounds [27].
For donor–acceptor systems with well-defined geometry, the OOP ESE technique allows the determination of the distance between the positive and the negative charges within the geminate pair (another name of CTS) with angstrom precision [28,29].
On the one hand, since the photoluminescence quenching implies exciton splitting at the donor/acceptor interface, the initial charge photogeneration should be appreciable in the P3HT/s-SWCNT composite.
This observation implies that the mechanism of charge photogeneration in the P3HT/s-SWCNT composite is similar to that for common polymer/fullerene and polymer/non-fullerene acceptor composites.
The out-of-phase ESEEM traces for the P3HT/s-SWCNT composite (Figure 3) were also similar to those previously observed in organic donor/acceptor bulk heterojunction composites and can be modeled using the same approach [32].
Again, the distance corresponding to the peak of the distribution density (several nanometers) and its tendency to increase with DAF is similar to those for CTS in other organic photovoltaics donor/acceptor composites [30,32].
This is because the latter is determined mainly by the structure of the donor/acceptor interface.
The insensitivity of the CTS geometry to the substrate and the film deposition method was recently shown for the composite of a donor polymer with a non-fullerene acceptor by direct comparison of OOP ESEEM traces [43].
This brings into question the successful application of single-walled SWCNTs as the acceptor component of the active layer of OPV devices.
In view of the present results, this seems to be the more promising direction of use for SWCNT additives to donor/acceptor OPV composites.
(19) attributed them to a donor-acceptor pair (low energy) and free-exciton transitions.
Now, borrowing principles from organic photovoltaics, heterojunctions of polymer photocatalysts and small molecule acceptors have been shown to have excellent solar hydrogen production efficiencies.Organic polymers have demonstrated promise as photocatalysts, but their photocatalytic efficiencies remain relatively low.
Now, borrowing principles from organic photovoltaics, heterojunctions of polymer photocatalysts and small molecule acceptors have been shown to have excellent solar hydrogen production efficiencies.
Recently, McCulloch and co-workers overcame these limitations by using conjugated polymer/non-fullerene acceptor heterojunction nanoparticles3.
The energy off-set of the conjugated polymer (PTB7-Th) relative to the acceptor molecule (EH-IDTBR) results in exciton separation at the interface.
A transition to heterojunctions was made by controlling the polymer–acceptor interface (Fig. 1b).
Independently, we explored a very similar approach in creating heterojunctions of conjugated polymers/non-fullerene acceptors using a semi-automated robotic screening approach that allowed us to explore a large number of donor–acceptor combinations and different ratios, including ternary systems6.
In principle, crystal engineering with COFs and molecular crystals can be used to control the interface of donor/acceptor components with atomistic precision.
Bimolecular recombination, and hole traps constrain single component Y6 photovoltaics to low efficiencies, but recombination is reduced by small quantities of donor.
Splitting bound excitons into free charges has required sharp molecular heterojunctions between donor and acceptor materials.
Rather than purely optimising charge harvesting, OPV devices have been optimised for exciton splitting at interfaces, and demand complex interpenetrating networks of donor and acceptor materials.
Recently, small molecule non-fullerene fused ring electron acceptors (FREAs)15–21 have driven a rapid uptick in the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPVs.
Bimolecular, and rapid minority carrier, charge recombination inhibit the efficiency of single-component devices, but this recombination can be slowed by ‘doping’ our Y6 films with only a small amount of ‘p-type’ polymer electron donor.
Using quantum-chemical calculations, we show that free charge generation is expected due to strong coupling between equienergetic exciton and CT states, and reveal that asymmetric polarisation of the different lattice positions results in a “donor/acceptor” system derived purely from intermolecular interactions.
The charge spectrum in neat Y6 closely resembles charge spectra obtained from these measurements (we note that the donor hole signature is also present in the PTB7-Th:Y6 measurement, which must be accounted for when making this comparison).
High intrinsic charge yields suggest a new path for OPV design by creating single component devices, or devices with very low donor contents (which may also be beneficial for semi-transparent OPV).
4Single component short circuit current density, low donor active layer device EQEs, and corresponding exciton and charge kinetics.a Intensity dependent JSC of a monolayer Y6 device.
b External quantum efficiencies (EQEs) of devices with active layers consisting of small ratios of donor, PTB7-Th, to acceptor, Y6.
For such low donor content, EQEs are unexpectedly high.
Single component short circuit current density, low donor active layer device EQEs, and corresponding exciton and charge kinetics.
b External quantum efficiencies (EQEs) of devices with active layers consisting of small ratios of donor, PTB7-Th, to acceptor, Y6.
For such low donor content, EQEs are unexpectedly high.
To further emphasise the importance of high charge recombination, rather than exciton splitting, as a limiting factor in device efficiency, we investigated the effect of ‘doping’ our Y6 material with very small amounts of donor polymer, PTB7-Th48.
The transient absorption kinetics show that for both blends the exciton species decay, and the charge species appear, with almost identical kinetics in the first 20 ps, but the charges recombine faster in the 1:100 blend, showing that the polymer donor’s key role is to decrease the rate of recombination.
These observations indicate that the packing geometry results in two distinct polarisation environments, creating a donor-acceptor system through supramolecular, rather than synthetic means.
This interpretation also explains the significant recombination observed experimentally: the alternation of 'donor' and 'acceptor' positions on the scale of the unit cell is akin to an extremely intermixed blend system – meaning that both charge formation and recombination are extremely rapid.
The implications for device design are far-reaching, showing that a new approach to reaching maximum efficiency may be to maximise intrinsic charge generation yield, whilst reducing rapid trap/dopant-assisted monomolecular and bimolecular charge recombination, rather than focus on exciton splitting in a donor-acceptor blend.
We propose a mechanism for how recombination is suppressed in current Y6 blends, drawing on studies invoking energy level bending at the donor/acceptor interface as a result of long-range interactions of charges with molecular quadrupole moments6,22,51,59–61.
When free charges are intrinsically generated in Y6, not only is the interfacial exciton dissociation barrier bypassed, but the level bending defines an attractive potential for holes, which are pulled towards the interface before leaving the acceptor material, while electrons are repelled.
While strong coupling reduces the optical gap, the energy of the charge-transfer state is not affected for large driving force donor-acceptor systems.
As showcase systems, we use chloroboron subnaphthalocyanine (SubNc) as donor and hexachloro phenoxy subphthalocyanine (Cl6-PhOSubPc) or Buckminster fullerene (C60) as acceptors.
SubNc (donor) and Cl6-PhOSubPc (acceptor) are ideal candidates to demonstrate SC in OSCs, since they both exhibit strong absorption at photon energies close to their Eopt, and Stokes shifts of only 16 nm (40 meV) and 25 nm (86 meV), respectively (Supplementary Fig. 1).
Thus, we fabricated SC-devices employing C60 as acceptor instead of Cl6-PhOSubPc.
In the active layer, SubNc (Lumtec, Taiwan) is used as donor and C60 (Creaphys, Germany) or Cl6-PhOSubPc (Lumtec, Taiwan) are used as acceptors.
Donor and acceptor layers are sequentially deposited forming a planar heterojunction.
The non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) employed in state-of-art organic photovoltaics (OPVs) often exhibit strong quadrupole moments which can strongly impact on material energetics.
The impact of this energetic shift on OPV performance is investigated in both bilayer and bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) devices with PM6 polymer donor.
This work demonstrates the key impact of NFA quadruple moments and molecular orientation on material energetics and thereby on the efficiency of high-performance OPVs.Non-fullerene acceptors with large quadrupole moments strongly affect thin-film energetics.
Since 2015, the development of the new small molecule-based non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs)1 has enabled OPVs to show remarkable improvements in both power conversion efficiency (PCE) and device stability2.
The state-of-art organic photovoltaics (OPVs) utilize the bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) structure where electron donor polymer and electron acceptor NFA materials are blended together to form a single photoactive layer.
For such BHJ devices, it is well known that the energetics at the donor-acceptor heterointerface (herein denoted as heterointerface) play a vital role in determining both the efficiency of free charge generation6,7 and the magnitude of the VOC loss8–10.
In most of such devices, hole transfer from the lower bandgap acceptor to the donor is the key step for free charge generation, and the efficiency of this process is determined by the offset between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels of donor and acceptor.
Meanwhile, this HOMO offset also affects the effective bandgap (the energy gap between donor HOMO and acceptor LUMO, where LUMO stands for the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital), which sets the upper limit for the device VOC.
Several studies have suggested that dipole moments, either intrinsic molecular dipoles13–15 or interfacial dipoles formed by ground state charge transfer between donor and acceptor molecules16 can result in significant energetic shifts in organic thin films.
Most high-performing NFAs for OPVs such as ITIC, IDTBR and Y6 have a planar backbone structure with alternating acceptor and donor moieties (typically in A-D-A or A-D-A’-D-A structures).
In those studies, a band bending at heterointerface is proposed, arising from the molecular quadrupole moments of NFAs and the concentration gradient of donor and acceptor species between interfacial and bulk regions26.
Such an orientation-dependent energy level shift has a direct impact on the energetics at the polymer donor and NFA acceptor heterointerfaces.
Finally, we extend our study to other commonly used polymer donor:NFA BHJ systems.
A clear correlation between the magnitude of the polymer donor energetic shift and the magnitude NFA Qπ is found.
To confirm that such large electrostatic energetic shifts observed with different molecular orientations originate from molecular quadrupole moment, the Qπ values of well-known NFAs and small molecular donors were simulated by density functional theory (DFT).
7a), resulting in a much larger positive Qπ in NFAs than the small molecular donors such as a-6T reported previously (Supplementary Fig. 7b)7,22,43.
It is attributed to a possible formation of the ground-state interfacial dipoles (i.e., charge transfer states) between donor polymer and NFA, which induces the possible energetic offset for charge generation.
Instead, the more systematic orientation in the CF device would maximize the wavefunction overlap of donor and acceptor molecules at the heterointerface, accelerating the electron transfer process.
To investigate if such quadrupole-induced electrostatic effect also exists when Y6 is blended with polymer donors, we further characterize PM6:Y6 BHJs processed from CF or CB.
The strong quadrupole effect observed in the bilayer system is also applicable to the BHJ system, albeit less pronounced as the mixing of donor and acceptor in BHJ films disturbs the superposition of molecular quadrupole moments.Fig.
To further investigate the effect of acceptor Qπ strength on BHJ blend energetics, we investigate the HOMO changes in PM6 and PBDB-T upon blending with various NFAs (IDIC, ITIC-series, Y6) with increasing Qπ.
5, all NFAs have positive Qπ shifting the donor HOMO downwards upon blending.
5Quadrupole effect on HOMO level shift (ΔHOMO) of polymer donors upon blending with different NFAs in CF.a Quadrupole moments of NFAs and the magnitude of ΔHOMO of b PM6 and c PBDB-T increase as the DFT simulated Qπ of NFAs increases.
Quadrupole effect on HOMO level shift (ΔHOMO) of polymer donors upon blending with different NFAs in CF.
In bilayer films, the difference in Qπ between donor and acceptor and their relative molecular orientations determine the magnitude of interfacial band bending.
One hypothesis has been that Cl− is situated at the interface between the perovskite and the TiO2 electron acceptor layer, which is known to be an effective route to improve the electron injection efficiencies.23–26 It has also been theoretically shown that the presence of Cl− diminishes inelastic electron–phonon coupling between the lowest energy electron and hole states which helps to reduce nonradiative losses.27 Chen et al.
It is known that larger grain size is beneficial to the carrier lifetimes and mobilities.35 Recent theoretical reports also found that the (110) face is the one that leads to the best interaction between the perovskite and the TiO2 electron acceptor layer.25 Furthermore, we have recently shown that the electron diffusion length along the (110) crystallographic plane is on the order of 10 μm which further demonstrates the benefits of the addition of MACl.16 On the other hand, pervious literature showed that interfacial electron transfer from pristine MAPbI3 to planar TiO2 is rather slow (>100 ns), which may relate to the limited surface area of the planar TiO2 and small Gibbs free energy difference between the perovskite and TiO2 conduction band edges.33,34 The TRPL results above show that interfacial charge injection rate is enhanced by chloride addition in the planar architecture, plausibly owing to the better interfacial contact between the perovskite and TiO2.
By definition, an organic photovoltaic cell can be single-layer (one layer of organic compound), dual-layer (two layers: donor and acceptor organic materials as the active layer), or bulk heterojunction (BHJ, dispersed heterojunction blend).
It is supposed that the BHJ organic cells combine the advantages of both single- and dual-layer OPV cells by mixing small regions of electron donors and electron acceptors, increasing the interfacial area between them and thus shortening the diffusion length of the exciton.
The donor P3HT is characterized by a high mobility (0.1 cm2 V−1 s−1) and a reduced band gap (1.9 eV) [55,66].
On the other hand, fullerene and fullerene derivatives have been frequently used as acceptors due to their mobility, specifically PC60BM, which was used frequently in combination with P3HT [64,67,68,69].
The organic materials, the regioregular P3HT donor (RR 97.3%-M1010), and the fullerene electron acceptor PC70BM (purity 99%-M114) were acquired from Ossila Ltd. (Sheffield, UK).
This is a consequence of the fast dissociation of excitons to free charges at the interfaces of the donor and acceptor domains [92].
The propensity of some block copolymers to phase segregate at the nano-scale is of particular interest in the field of organic photovoltaics (OPV), where separation of the electron donor and acceptor domains on the order of the exciton diffusion length (5–10 nm) is required [1,6–9].
Many approaches have been reported to tether two or more light-absorbing polymers to form a block copolymer [1,10–15], with some attempts focusing on one block being the donor and the other the acceptor [16–18].
Indeed, it has been shown that when block copolymers are used as additives in bulk heterojunction donor–acceptor blend layers, the morphology of the resulting ternary blend film can be more stable over long periods of time, even under thermal annealing [14,20–21].
recently reported the PCE of 5.66% for vacuum deposited bilayer OPVs based on tetraphenyldibenzoperiflanthen (DBP) donor and Fullerene (C70) acceptor incorporating efficient exciton blocking layers11.
Fullerenes and their derivatives are still widely used as electron acceptors in OPV devices due to their high electron mobility as well as electron affinity, which promotes efficient charge separation at the organic electron donor/acceptor (D/A) interface, when used in combination with a suitable donor such as DBP investigated in this work12–16.
In order to efficiently extract electrons out from the electron acceptor, and minimize losses at the cathode interface, a layer that acts both as exciton blocking (EBL) and electron transporting (ETL) is needed in between the cathode and electron acceptor layer17,18.
Such combined EBLs and ETLs blocks photo-generated excitons from quenching at the cathode electrode, while extracting electrons (and not holes) efficiently out from the acceptor, through an ideally zero energy barrier at that interface19.
Peumans et al.23 introduced for the first time a BCP (2,9-dimethyl-4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline) layer as a combined EBL and ETL in between the electron acceptor and cathode in bilayer, standard configuration OPV cells based on CuPc and fullerene, C60.
Despite the relatively high lying LUMO level, BCP efficiently transports electrons from the acceptor to the cathode due to the formation of a BCP-metal complex, formed when the metal cathode is evaporated on top of the BCP layer26.
However, although these layers provide improved electrical properties, Ag doped BCP may lead to unwanted exciton quenching processes in the fullerene acceptor layer and thus deteriorate the device performance37.
DBP possesses a high optical absorption strength in the visible wavelength regime and a HOMO level at 5.5 eV44, making it a good match to fullerene acceptors such as C60 and C7011.
Electron-polaron accumulation at the electron acceptor and blocking interface may lead to exciton-polaron recombination effects20,31, a well-known cause for performance drops in OPV devices49.Figure 3The JV characteristic of representative J-V curves for the inverted OPV devices with various thicknesses of the BCP:C70 (2:1) ETL and EBL.Table 1The performance parameters of the BCP:C70 (2:1) OPV devices with the various investigated thicknesses of the BCP:C70 ETL and EBL.Figure 4The performance parameters of inverted OPV devices with the various investigated thicknesses of the BCP:C70(2:1) ETL and EBL.
This can be explained by the increased series resistance and exciton-polaron recombination20,31 taking place at the acceptor and blocking layer interface.
It is known that, the diffusion length of excitons being smaller than the organic layer thickness necessary to absorb light, the geometry of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) was used with success [7,8,9,10,11], while in the case of planar heterojunctions (PHJs), the excitons created too far from the electron donor/electron acceptor interface are lost, which, contrary to the case of BHJs, limits the thickness of PHJs and, therefore, their efficiency [12].
MoO3 is one of the possible dielectrics; it is well known that it is very efficient as a hole-transporting layer (HTL) at the anode/electron donor interface [21,22].
They are based on the electron acceptor/electron donor couple (EA/ED): C60/SubPc.
SubPc is known for its high absorption coefficient and C60 for its high efficiency as an electron acceptor [27].
The buffer layer inserted between the cathode and the electron acceptor, which is called the exciton blocking layer (EBL) in the case of PHJ-OPVs [29], is a thin layer (9 nm) of Alq3.
According to the previous report,39 the sp3-hybridized nitrogen atoms could act as electron donors to provide lone pairs of electrons to the unoccupied orbitals of transition metal atoms (M) through chemical coupling to form M(δ+)–N(δ−) bonding states.
For example, the formation of low-energy triplet excitons via recombination of a photogenerated hole-electron pair is generally considered a major energy-loss pathway in donor-acceptor (D-A) blend-type bulk heterojunction OPVs (BHJ-OPVs) (Fig.
Although the fundamental driving force for LPL is attributed to charge separation based mainly on the Coulomb interaction between donor and acceptor molecules, the aforementioned long-lived emission (LLE) relies not only on the intermolecular Coulomb interaction but also substantially on the electric field that arises from SOP.
The molecular structure of 4CzIPN (or 4CzTPN) used in the present study is, unfortunately, unfavorable for charge separation between neighboring molecules because of its four bulky carbazole units, which shield the electron-acceptor unit, and because the 3CT1 state has a short lifetime as a consequence of the nature of the rapid reverse intersystem crossing (28).
The BHJ structure can be formed simply by mixing a donor and acceptor solution.
This straightforward technique is advantageous in terms of increasing the donor/acceptor (D/A) interface, which provides the exciton dissociation sites.
An ideal structure would be an interdigitated interface, where the donor and acceptor phases are separate.
Meanwhile, C60 absorbs the light in the UV range of 300 to 400 nm and acts as an electron acceptor to transport such electrons to the electrode [9,13].
AAO: anodic aluminum oxide; BHJ: bulk heterojunction; C60: fullerene; D/A: donor/acceptor; ITO: indium tin oxide; P3H: poly(3-hexylthiophene); SEM: scanning electron microscope.
The non-fullerene acceptors A1–A5 with diflourobenzene or quinoline core (bridge) unit, donor cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene unit and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile as acceptor unit with additional phenyl, fulvene or thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl 5-oxide groups have been designed through DFT calculations.
Debye) showed that these designed acceptors are good candidates for organic solar cells.
The λmax in CHCl3 showed marginal red shift for all designed acceptors compared with gas phase absorption.
The partial density of states (PDOS) has been plotted by using multiwfn which showed that all the designed molecules have more electronic distribution at the donor moiety and lowest at the central bridge.
The blends of acceptors A1–A5 with donor polymer D1 provided open circuit voltage (Voc) and ∆HOMO off-set of the HOMO of donor and acceptors.
These blends showed 1.04 to 1.5 eV values of Voc and 0 to 0.38 eV ∆HOMO off set values of the donor–acceptor bends which indicate improved performance of the cell.
The HOMO were found distributed on the donor polymer (D1) while the A4 acceptor was found with LUMO distribution.
Based on λmax values, and band gap energies (Eg), excitation energies (Ex), reorganization energies; the A3 and A4 will prove good acceptor molecules for the development of organic solar cells.
In organic solar cells, usually a polymer is used as donor material along with well-known fullerene as an acceptor to build heterojunction between donor and acceptor.
The fullerene and its derivatives have been an immense choice for the chemists as small molecular acceptor (SMA) due to high power conversion efficiency (PCE), electron transport in three dimensions, high charge separation and low lying LUMO2.
However, the disadvantages of the fullerenes such as fixed energy levels, solubility in organic solvents, poor processability, and poor light absorption above 600 nm created space for the development of alternative acceptor molecules11–15.
The small organic molecular non-fullerene acceptors (FNAs) have been found an alternative to fullerene that removed the disadvantages associated with fullerene acceptor.
The 3a,3b,6a,7a-tetrahydro-7H-cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene as donor moiety has been frequently used within the structure of NFAs due to its easy availability and good compatibility with a number of acceptor moieties.
These properties of the donor moiety was found to be due to the efficient electron-donating nature of sulfur atom in acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type structure of NFAs17–19.
designed acceptor molecules with benzodithenophene core and melanonitrile or dinitromethane electron–acceptor end groups.
calculated the optical and electronic properties of newly designed dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]silole)2,6-diyl (DTS) based donor molecules through DFT and TD-DFT at CAM-B3LYP/6-31G (d) level of theory.
in 2020 used DFT at B3LYP with 6-31G(d,p) basis-set to calculate the λmax, reorganization energy (charge mobility), frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs) energy and open circuit voltage (Voc) of newly designed subphthalocyanine derived chromophores as donor materials.
These designed donor molecules showed improved photovoltaic properties than the reference compounds24.
in 2019 successfully synthesized NFAs with diflourophenylene as core structure, cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene donor and malanonitrile end-capped acceptor groups.
The fabrication of these acceptors with the donor polymers provided good photovoltaic properties such as small Eloss and high PCE of above 10%25.
By inspiring from the work of Li et al., acceptor molecules have been designed with diflourophenylene or quinoline core, cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene as donor unit and melanonitrile based acceptor units that provided enhanced photovoltaic properties through DFT calculation.
For geometry optimization, first of all the acceptor molecule A1 which has closed similarity with standard25 was optimized through DFT with a split valence basis set 6-31G (d,p) that is used at B3LYP28 and CAM-B3LYP28 levels of theory.
Therefore, B3LYP/6 31G (d,p) was used for the geometry optimization of designed acceptor molecules A1 to A5.
By taking inspiration from the work of Li et al., the small organic molecular NFAs A1–A5 have been designed with cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene donor moiety (Fig.
except the cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene25 donor moiety was replaced with cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene.
The acceptor moieties of the designed molecules A1–A3 have been derived from 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile, but A4 has fulvene group in addition to 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile end capped acceptor group.
The designed A5 molecule has qunioline core structure and the acceptor moiety contains thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl 5-oxide incorporated in between donor cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene and end-capped cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene group (Fig. 1).
These theoretically calculated parameters would lead to develop molecules with improved properties in a solar cell.Figure 1The structure of designed small organic NFA molecules A1–A5; the topmost structure represents core and donor units with X as acceptor unit (A1–A4), the lowest A5 has core, donor and acceptor units.
The structure of designed small organic NFA molecules A1–A5; the topmost structure represents core and donor units with X as acceptor unit (A1–A4), the lowest A5 has core, donor and acceptor units.
The designed molecules A3 and A4 have lowest Eg values (1.42 eV), A2 has highest Eg value (2.01 eV) among the designed acceptors, and the Eg of A1 and A5 were calculated to be 1.80 eV and 1.66 eV respectively.
The distribution of HOMO and LUMO in acceptor molecules gives information on the delocalization of electronic density.
The HOMO describes the valence band, while the LUMO gives information about the conduction band of acceptor molecules.
The A3 and A4 molecules have planar geometry and extended conjugation due to phenyl or fulvene rings between donor and acceptor moieties, thus these molecules showed lowest Eg value (1.42 eV).
However, the direct attachment of the acceptor moiety with the donor moiety in A1 and A2 showed increase Eg values (1.80 and 2.01 eV respectively) which can be associated with the reduced conjugation in the molecules.
The A1–A4 molecules have cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene donor diflourophenylene as bridge structure.
The designed A5 molecule has qunioline core structure, and the acceptor moiety contains thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl 5-oxide incorporated in between donor cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene and end-capped cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene group.
Figure 2 shows that the A1–A4 has their HOMO distributed over the bridge and donor moieties.
It can be visualized that the A1–A4 has HOMO distribution on the bridge and donor units, while A5 has HOMO distribution on the donor moiety.
The LUMO distribution for all the designed molecules has resided on the acceptor units.Figure 2Distribution of HOMO and LUMO of the molecules A1–A5 at B3LYP 6-31 G (d,p).
The designed molecules were divided in to three fragments; acceptor which corresponds to the end-capped groups, donor fragment which consists of 7,7-dimethyl-7H-cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene and bridge structure which consist of difloropheylene for A1–A4 or quinoline unit for A5.
The distribution of total density of states is represented in Figure 3 by black line, donor units with blue lines, acceptor units with red lines and the bridge groups with green lines.
Figure 3 shows that the distribution of electron densities lies more on donor moieties and less on acceptor moieties; however, near the fermi energy, the acceptor unit (red curve) in all A1–A5 molecules have considerable contribution of density of states (DOS) in molecular orbitals.
This trend suggests that these type of molecules can contribute effectively as acceptor molecules when fabricated in solar cells; and can, presumably, enhance the efficiency of the organic solar cell.
The DOS of the blended film with HOMO (valence band) of donor and LUMO (conduction band) of the acceptor (NFAs in present case) molecules are considered.
The DOS around the LUMO of NFAs are important, especially the PDOS on the acceptor moiety of FNAs.
The more PDOS on the acceptor moiety suggests good electron affinity of the acceptor which can provide enhanced photovoltaic properties to the OSCs.
For A1, the donor and acceptor moieties have about equal distribution in the valence band region, whereas in conduction band region, the acceptor surpasses the donor moiety when moving to the positive on x-axis.
The A2–A4 molecules exhibit more contribution of donor than acceptor units (Fig.
Dipole moments of designed acceptor A1–A5 molecules
Photo-excitation of A1–A5 acceptor molecules
The red shift in λmax value along with strong light absorption has resulted to lower the excitation energy, and ultimately reinforce the electron-acceptor property of the molecules37.
The presence of fulvene extended conjugation in the A4 acceptor molecule and resulted in highest λmax value (810 nm).
The acceptor molecules A1 and A5 have 1.72 and 1.62 eV of excitation energy values.
The Ex values of A3 and A4 are 1.40 eV which are the lowest among all the designed acceptor molecules due to the extended conjugation with fulvene moiety is incorporated between donor and acceptor groups.
The A3 molecule has phenyl ring immersed between donor and acceptor moieties which increased the conjugation due to its planar structure and hence showed highest absorption value in gas and in CHCl3 solvent (with IEFPCM model) as compared to the other designed acceptor molecules.
All the designed acceptor molecules A1–A5 showed lower value of the excitation energies (Ex) than the ground state band-gap energies(Eg).
The lowest absorption was observed for designed acceptor A1 in gas as well as in CHCl3.
The order of the absorption values for other acceptor molecules is A5 > A2 > A4 in gas phase and in CHCl3 (Fig.
Open circuit voltage (Voc) and difference of HOMO of donor and acceptor
The theoretical Voc value is calculated through the difference of HOMO of donor and LUMO of acceptor minus 0.3.
The donor polymer D1 was used at B3LYP 6-31G (d,p) along with A1–A5 acceptors for the calculation of Voc through the following equation.3\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\mathrm{V}}_{\mathrm{oc}}= {\mathrm{HOMO}}_{\mathrm{donor}}- {\mathrm{LUMO}}_{\mathrm{acceptor}}- 0.3$$\end{document}Voc=HOMOdonor-LUMOacceptor-0.3
The theoretical calculation of Voc by subtracting the HOMO of donor from LUMO of acceptor and 0.3 can provide an estimation of the open circuit voltage when the designed acceptor is fabricated with some donor polymer (D1) through solution processed bulk heterojunction41,42.
The highest Voc value of 1.5 eV is shown by the A1 and A3 with donor polymer D1.
The difference of energies of HOMO of donor D1 and acceptors A1–A5 provide HOMO off-set values (∆HOMOD–A).
5).Figure 5Voc and ∆HOMO of A1–A5 with D1 polymer donor.
Voc and ∆HOMO of A1–A5 with D1 polymer donor.
The complex of A4 with D1 has been used for studying charge transfer between donor and acceptor molecules (Fig. 6).
Figure 7 shows that the HOMO are scattered on the donor polymer D1 while the LUMO are entirely distributed on the acceptor A4.
The calculation of dipole moment provides useful information about the charge transfer as well as the electrostatic interaction between donor and acceptor units43,44.Figure 6Optimized geometry of blend of D1–A4 at B3LYP 6-31G (d,p).Figure 7HOMO and LUMO distribution on the blend of D1–A1.
The non-fullerene A1–A5 acceptor molecules have been designed successfully with diflourobenzene or quinoline bridge, cyclopenta[1,2-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene donor and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile acceptor moiety which incorporates additional phenyl, fulvene or thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidine 5-oxide units through DFT calculations.
The designed non-fullerene acceptor A4 has shown lowest band gap energy (1.42 eV), as well as excitation energy in gas phase (1.39 eV) and in CHCl3 (1.40 eV).
Thus A4 will, presumably, prove good candidate for future organic non-fullerene acceptors.
The dipole moments of the designed acceptors A1–A5 at ground state (µg) and excited state (µe) have also been calculated; A5 showed highest dipole moment values (µe:18.6D; µe:12.8D).
The Distribution of HOMO of donor and LUMO of acceptor has been studied for D1–A4 blend which has provided information that the HOMO are resided on the donor polymer (D1) and LUMO are scattered on acceptor A4.
Thus keeping in view the optoelectronic, molecular orbital distribution and reorganization energies A3 and A4 molecules were found a very good acceptor which can be synthesized as non-fullerene acceptor for future organic solar cell.
These acceptors are expected to provide improved photovoltaic properties to OSCs.
Peumans and Forrest used bathocuproine (BCP) as an electron transport layer (light absorber) to disturb the diffusion of excitons to the cathode and to decrease the later exciton quenching at the acceptor/cathode interface in the (CuPc/C60) OPV cell [30].
The electron and hole extraction in the donor-acceptor layer was increased by photoluminescence spectra [39].
used a random and irregular garnish of (PEDOT: PSS)/CuPc/C60 as an anode buffer layer, donor and acceptor, respectively.
Zhang and Holmes used a rubrene as an insulating blocking interlayer at (CuPc) donor-C60 acceptor interface to disappointed recombination losses and to generate a separate of electron and hole.
These organic solar cells rely on the thin film of CuPc/C60 as a donor and acceptor, respectively.
1(a) chemical structure of copper phthalocyanine CuPc as a donor, (b) fullerene (C60) as acceptor, and (c) schematic structure of the organic photovoltaic cell.Fig.
(a) chemical structure of copper phthalocyanine CuPc as a donor, (b) fullerene (C60) as acceptor, and (c) schematic structure of the organic photovoltaic cell.
This incident light passes to CuPc (donor) to generate excitons that can be diffused in CuPc layer or dissociated at the interface layer between CuPc and C60.
As we know, the exciton has a binding energy and it needs the energy to dissociate so the built-in electric field resulting from the difference in work function between CuPc (donor) and C60 (acceptor) or the electrostatic forces that generated due to the difference between the electron affinity and ionization potential for both C60 and CuPc has potential energies overcome excitonic binding energy.
So, it is suitable for dissociate photogenerated excitons at the donor-acceptor interface.
Enhanced photovoltaic achievement can be assigned to the plasmonic effect of nanoparticles and the rapid generate of excitons at CuPc as a donor layer and decomposition at the interfacial layer between donor and C60 as acceptor.
In this phenomenon, the light is further intensified into the donor layer to be absorbed in CuPc and increase the built-in field at the interfacial layer due to PEDPT:PSS embedded AuNPs and to the surface plasmonic resonance effect.
Self-assembled donor–acceptor dyads are used as model nanostructured heterojunctions for local investigations by noncontact atomic force microscopy (nc-AFM) and Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM).
After in situ annealing, it is shown that the dyads with longer donor blocks essentially lead to standing acceptor–donor lamellae, where the acceptor and donor groups are π-stacked in an edge-on configuration.
This work paves the way for local investigations of the optoelectronic properties of donor–acceptor supramolecular architectures down to the elementary building block level.
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells rely on blends of electron-donor (D) and electron-acceptor (A) materials, arranged in interpenetrated networks at the 10 nm scale to efficiently separate the excitons into free charges at the D–A interface.
Moreover, recent studies have shown that pure donor and acceptor domains may often coexist with intermixed or co-crystallized phases [10–11].
In such structures, the donor and acceptor can be intimately mixed at the sub-10 nm scale.
Most of these supramolecular architectures rely on the use of fullerenes [13–15] or perylene-3,4,9,10-tetracarboxylic acid diimide (PDI) [16–20] as the acceptor components.
In this study, we investigate a new class of PDI-based acceptor–donor block co-oligomers [19,21].
More precisely, the acceptor block (A) is PDI, whereas the donor block (D) is made of a combination of thiophene, ﬂuorene, and 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole derivatives (Figure 1).
The donor length can be varied by repeating the number, n, of bithiophene-dioctylfluorene segments.
The D–A co-oligomers self-assemble in a zipper-like structure such that the donor groups and the PDI units form distinct D and A lamellae.
Schematic view of the self-assembled acceptor–donor (A–D) lamellar structures and the observed orientations on the substrate.
In these domains, the molecules are π-stacked with a strong overlap of both the PDI and donor segments, and the π-stacking direction is parallel to the plane of the substrate (for more details see [19]).
The ratio between standing and flat-on lamellae is a function of the donor block length as well as the processing conditions.
Most of the surface photo-voltage investigations were carried out on the AD3 sample, while the AD1 was mainly used in a first step to check the influence of the donor segment length on the film morphology.
Actually, XRD and TEM investigations [19,21] have shown that these other domains consist of flat-on lamellae (see Figure 2) and that their proportion in the film is inversely proportional to the length of the donor blocks.
They provide a benchmark to check the ability to resolve the contributions to the SPV contrasts of donor and acceptor units.
Firstly, we note the absence of any significant CPD contrast within the flat-on lamellae (blue contours in Figure 6), which is consistent because the tip probes the top surface consisting exclusively of donor groups.
In organic donor–acceptor solar cells, the SPV measures the splitting of the quasi-Fermi levels of the holes and electrons under illumination across the donor–acceptor interface [8].
The ITO substrate is also grounded, but in the absence of a top metallic cathode, both donor and acceptor units can contribute to the local SPV measured at the surface of the film.
In the dark condition state, the Fermi level of the donor units is pinned by the substrate, while the acceptor blocks display a flat band alignment.
Under illumination, the holes quasi-Fermi level remains aligned with the Fermi level of the grounded substrate, while the quasi-Fermi level of the electrons is located near the lowest unoccupied orbital level (LUMO) of the acceptor units.
As a consequence, the local vacuum level remains constant over the donor units, and is shifted upward over the acceptor segments, resulting in a global downward shift of the surface potential (i.e., a negative SPV).
Here, we assume a Fermi level pinning of the donor blocks after charge transfer to the substrate (resulting in the existence of an interface dipole, Δ), and a flat band alignment (in dark) of the acceptor segments.
Under illumination, the local vacuum level (EVac) remains constant over the donor segments while it is shifted upward over the acceptor segments, resulting in a negative shift of the surface potential in average.
Especially, stacking several layers of edge-on oligomers with different orientations should dramatically impact the electron delocalization through the bulk of the film by breaking the continuity of the subnetwork formed by the acceptor units.
In turn, the hole transport will be less affected, due to the longer length of the donor segments.
A final topic we want to address is the ability to resolve the contributions to the SPV contrasts of donor and acceptor units within a single A–D lamella.
However, a direct visualisation of the donor and acceptor segments remains beyond the limits of resolution of our experiment.
Self-assembled thin films of donor–acceptor dyads have been investigated by noncontact atomic force microscopy and Kelvin probe force microscopy.
Lastly, SPV contrasts were resolved at the scale of single edge-on lamellae, which is an important step towards local investigations of photovoltaic self-assembled donor–acceptor heterojunctions at the submolecular scale.
Based on the key distinction in the donor (D)–acceptor (A) bonding patterns between single‐component and bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices, rationalizing the difference between the transport mechanisms is crucial to understanding the structure–property correlation.
The single‐component photovoltaic materials based on intramolecular heterojunction are classified into block copolymers with “in‐chain” acceptor groups,[  24 ,  25 ,  26 ,  27  ] “double‐cable” conjugated polymers with pendant acceptor groups,[  6 ,  10 ,  22 ,  28 ,  29  ] and D–A molecular dyads.
[  37 ,  38  ] Delocalized charge carriers on the donor or acceptor block chains can undergo an intrachain transport process within the conjugation length.
However, the electron‐push structure of the donor blocks and the electron‐pull structure of the acceptor blocks result in alternating potential barriers and wells at their links, hindering the intrachain electron transport process.
The blending solution with total 24 mg mL−1 can be obtained by dissolving an organic donor (PBDB‐T) and acceptor materials (Y6) through 1 vol% CN chloroform (CF) solution.
Over the past 20 years, considerable and increasing research efforts have been devoted to the design and synthesis of new materials, based on “donor, π-conjugated bridge, acceptor” (D–π–A) organic dye photosensitizers.
As a result, one of the most popular structures for dye sensitizers in DSSCs is the generic chromophore structure of “donor, π-conjugated bridge, acceptor” (D–π–A) or ‘push-pull’ dye, for instance, the TA-St-CA dye [24].
This structure utilizes a π-conjugated bridge (e.g., oligo-phenylenevinylene) with an electron donor (e.g., the triphenylamine (TPA)-based fragment) and an electron acceptor (e.g., 2-cyanoacrylic acid moiety) to induce a preferred absorption shift in the overall chromophore.
It is found that systematic modification of the donor, π-bridge, or the acceptor moieties all serve the purpose of property and spectral manipulation of the original dyes.
For example, the use of Carbz-PAHTDDT with a TPA-based donor (D) moiety substituted by two carbazole units and dithienothiophene (DTT), a five-membered heterocyclic ring, as a parent structure with a conjugated π-bridge and the acceptor group.
Further, Pzn EDOT dyes consisting of a Zn-tetraphenylporphyrin core as a donor moiety and 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene (EDOT) or 2-cyanoacrylic acid moiety as acceptor groups will be used to illustrate the concept of CARD to the structural engineering of new chromophores and dyes.
The structure of TA-St-CA incorporates a conjugated oligo-phenylenevinylene π-bridge with an electron donor and electron acceptor moieties, i.e., D-π-A.
Hence, ED group substitutions at positions close to the donor (D) section of the parent dye can be more effective for the new dyes in DSSCs [24,117].
The electron donor moiety (D) is non-coplanar, which has been shown to enhance the thermal stability of the dye sensitizer by reducing the intermolecular distance and aggregation.
The acceptor (A) moiety of the parent S9 dye includes a cyano group as an electron-withdrawing group and the carboxyl group serves as an anchoring unit to contact the dye to the TiO2 surface, as shown in Figure 6 [25].
The donor moiety of the reference parent PZn-EDOT dye, i.e., Zn-tetraphenylporphyrin, is depicted in Figure 9a.
In the original D-π-A structure of PZn-EDOT, the Zn porphyrin macrocycle acts as an electron donor (D) moiety, a cyanoacrylic acid group as an electron acceptor (A) moiety, and 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene (EDOT) as a π-bridge.
Strategies to enhance spectral absorbance include substitution of the donor (D) moiety, the π-bridge, or the acceptor moiety (A) of the D-π-A structure, respectively.
The donor moiety (metalloporphyrin) of the reference Pzn-EDOT dye was modified using ED-fragments—which produce Group I dyes and the π-bridge—which produces Group II dyes, as indicated in Figure 9 [26].
Structural engineering via molecular fragment modifications of the metalloporphyrin donor (D) moiety and the conjugate π-bridge enabled a decrease in the HOMO-LUMO energy gap and broadened the calculated absorption profile, effectively enhancing the light-harvesting capacity of the new chromophores [26].
AbstractA series of non‐fullerene acceptors based on perylene monoimides coupled in the peri position through phenylene linkers were synthesized via Suzuki‐coupling reactions.
Further investigations of the bulk properties with grazing incidence wide angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) gave insight into the stacking behavior of the acceptor thin films.
Electrochemical and morphological properties correlate with the photovoltaic performance of devices with the polymeric donor PBDB‐T and a maximum efficiency of 3.17 % was reached.
In recent years, small molecule non‐fullerene acceptors (NFAs) outperformed the well‐known fullerenes and their derivatives in organic solar cells.
[3]  In order to avoid excessive π‐π stacking, most acceptor structures derive from perylene diimide forming dimers, trimers, tetramers or oligomeric and polymeric materials via linkage through ortho, bay or imide positions.
[19]  The coupling of two perylene monoimides (P) through the peri position via π‐conjugated linker molecules (L) leads to an acceptor‐donor‐acceptor (A‐D‐A) like structure P‐L‐P.
Despite linker variations, solar cell efficiencies did not exceed 1 % (using PCE‐10 as donor polymer).
Solar cell devices reached a maximum of 0.2 %, albeit here the fullerene derivative PCBM was used as acceptor.
[22]  The group of Ma introduced alkynyl linkers and also reached roughly 1 % in solar cell devices (PBDB‐T as donor).
[23]  Using alkylated fluorene as linker and P3HT as donor polymer, a PCE above 2 % was reported by the group of Cheng, [24]  while the group of Li reported efficiency values of up to 6.0 % and an impressive VOC of 1.3 V after replacing the donor polymer with PTZ1.
With all three acceptors, efficiencies over 5 % and VOCs over 1 V could be reached (PBDB‐T as donor polymer).
Finally, the materials were tested in organic solar cells with the polymeric donor PBDB‐T and the device performance was analyzed in the light of P‐L‐P compound structural properties.
B) Synthesis route of P‐L‐P based acceptors; i: Br2 in AcOH at r.t., ii: B2Pin2, Pd(dppf)Cl2, KOAc in 1,4‐dioxane at 80 °C, iii: Suzuki coupling catalyzed by Pd(PPh3)4, using 1 M K2CO3 or KF, some cases with Aliquat 336, in toluene or EtOH/THF at 80–110 °C (for more detailed information, see the compound of interest in the Supporting Information).
A formation of two conformers, just as described for the monoimides 4 and 5, is expected for the P‐L‐P acceptors 7 a‐g.
The situation changes if the substituent on the phenyl linker is a stronger electron donor, as in the case of compound 7 g, which contains decyloxy groups.
To investigate the crystallinity and molecular packing of the acceptor molecules (6, 7 a–7 g), 2D grazing incidence wide angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) measurements of drop casted films have been performed.
Finally, we investigated the photovoltaic performance of the new perylene monoimide based materials using PBDB‐T as donor polymer (for the structural formula see Figure S47).
Solar cells with an inverted device structure were built as follows: indium tin oxide (ITO)/zinc oxide (ZnO)/PBDB‐T:acceptor/MoO3/Ag.
The active layer blends were prepared from solutions in chloroform with a concentration of the donor of 10 mg mL−1.
The donor was mixed with the acceptor in a weight ratio of 1 : 1.
The active layer blends based on the investigated novel non‐fullerene acceptors exhibit characteristic large open circuit voltages, reaching values around 1 V. Compound 7 d is an exception (VOC 0.67 V), which is probably due to its lower thermal stability around the annealing temperature.
Nevertheless, the VOC values reached with these acceptors are comparable to our previous work using the same donor.
The photocurrents of compounds 7 c and 7 d are similar and both lower compared to para‐linked 7 f and 7 g. This might be a consequence of the increased twisting in the ortho and meta configuration (7 c and 7 d, respectively), as increased twisting angles for perylene diimide acceptors are known to have a negative effect on their crystallinity.
[50]  Reference devices produced from compound 6 showed an increased photocurrent (I SC=3.42 mA cm−2, Table S4 and Figure S49) and had an overall better performance in solar cells than the compounds 7 c and 7 d. Pristine films of all three materials had a similar packing (see GIWAXS data in Figure 4), thus the differences in solar cell performance stems most presumably from the interaction with the polymer donor.
That yields a higher J SC and thus, a higher PCE for solar cells based on these acceptors.
The relatively high short circuit current density (7.46 mA cm−2) allows compound 7 g to reach the highest PCE of 3.17 % within this series of acceptors.
The EQE spectra (Figure 5B) confirm the same efficiency trend as obtained from the J–V curves and an equal contribution from the donor and acceptor component can be seen for all devices (see also the film absorption spectra in Figure 5C).
The performance of these P‐L‐P acceptors in solar cells allows making the following conclusions.
To that end, if the electron donating character of the phenyl linker is close to none (ortho substituted 7 c), the morphological properties of the acceptor become more important.
The relatively low reduction potentials of these molecules makes them suitable to be used as non‐fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaics and thus solar cells based on absorber layers containing PBDB‐T as donor and the synthesized compounds as acceptor were investigated.
For PEA2SnI4 an increased stability of the acceptor defects compared to the lead analogue is reported, with VI+, VPEA–, and VSn2– defects pinning the Fermi level at ∼0.6 eV above the VB, indicating a moderate p-doping.
Interestingly, the positive interstitial Ii+ is also stable in the p region of the PEA2SnI4 diagram, in contrast to 3D MASnI3 (see Figure S4 in the Supporting Information), where only the negatively charged form of the defect Ii– is stable across the Fermi level range.30 In this case, the downshift of the VBM of PEA2SnI4 strongly destabilizes acceptor defects, such as Ii– and VSn2–, compared to MASnI3 (see Figure S4 in the Supporting Information) by favoring the oxidized form of iodine interstitials.
Differently from MASnI3, however, acceptor VSn2– are compensated by VI+, thus suggesting that PEA2SnI4 is not as heavily p doped as its 3D analogues.30,31
We explore two small molecules containing arms of dicyano-n-hexylrhodanine and diathiafulvalene wings terminated with benzothiadiazole linker, denoted as BAF-4CN and BAF-2HDT, respectively, as small molecule non-fullerene acceptors (SMNFAs) in organic solar cells.
The proposed materials are mixed with a low band gap polymer donor PTB7-Th having broad absorption in the range of 400–750 nm to form solution-processed bulk heterojunctions (BHJs).
The photoluminescence (PL) measurements show that both donor and acceptor can quench each other’s PL effectively, implying that not only electrons are transferred from PTB7-Th → SMNFAs but also holes are transferred from SMNFAs → PTB7-Th for efficient photocurrent generation.
The organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices based on bulk hetero-junction (BHJ) active layer, which is a blend of electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) components in the bulk, have attracted enormous attention for solar cell applications due to their simple solution process techniques such as spin coating, spraying, stamping, printing, and doctor blading.
In order to improve the photovoltaic performance of solution processed BHJ solar cells, various types of donor-acceptor combination including polymer donor (PD)/polymer acceptor (PA)3, small molecular donor (SMD)/small molecular acceptor (SMA)4,5, PD/SMA6,7, and SMD/PA8 have been endeavored.However, solution processable small molecules have certain advantages over their conjugated polymer counterparts as the former have well-defined molecular structures, definite molecular weight, a higher degree of purity and absence of batch-to-batch variation during production9,10.
In the past few years, fullerene derivatives have shown promising power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) over 10% in BHJ solar cells with various polymer and small molecule donors11.
Recently, small molecule nonfullerene acceptors (SMNFAs) have come up as an alternative to fullerene derivatives and shows considerably high PCEs due to their easy tunability of the electronic and optical properties13–16.
having PCE values of 5.1, 5.3 and 5.0%, respectively when blended with a narrow band gap polymer donor poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]-dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b] thiophene)-2-carboxylate-2,6-diyl)] (PTB7-Th)19.
Y. Lin group designed and synthesized SMNFAs Indacenodithiophene and Indacenodithieno [3,2-b] thiophene moieties (ladder type electron donor unit) with end cap of dicyanoindane-3-dione named as IEIC and ITIC achieving PCE up to 6.31 and 6.8%, respectively with PTB7-Th donor polymer20,21.
Previously we have reported a highest PCE of 7.1 and 8.4% in solar cells fabricated from these acceptors blending with a low band gap polymer donor poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3″′-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2″′-quaterthiophen-5,5″′-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD).
In this communication, we have studied the photovoltaic performance of the acceptors in BHJ inverted structure solar cell blending with BDT-based π-electron rich conjugated polymer donor PTB7-Th, commonly known as PCE10 or, PBDTTT-EFT30,31.
Fluorine atom on TT unit is normally introduced to achieve low-lying highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and LUMO energy levels32,33.Figure 1Synthetic route of synthesized non-fullerene acceptors BAF-4CN and BAF-2HDT.
Synthetic route of synthesized non-fullerene acceptors BAF-4CN and BAF-2HDT.
A gradual quenching of PTB7-Th peak at 758 nm was observed by a monotonic increment of the acceptor content in both blend films when excited at 480 nm.
This indicates a highly efficient photoinduced charge transfer from donor to the acceptor molecules.Figure 3Photoluminescence quenching of PTB7-Th in the presence of (a) BAF-4CN and (b) BAF-2HDT, (c) schematic representation of the ‘electron-hole transfer’ model for NFAs.
There is a strong quenching of PTB7-Th by both BAF-4CN or BAF-2HDT which indicates its good electron acceptor characteristics.
This phenomenon is not observed in the case of fullerene based acceptors; possibly due to the fact the absorption of fullerene acceptors is quite low whereas in the case of NFAs, strong light absorption is observed.
This would leads to exciton creations in the NFAs and dissociation at the interface, leading to a hole transfer to the donor.
3c, where an electron is transferred from donor the NFA, whereas a hole is transferred from NFA to the donor.
Therefore in this case, both donor and acceptor are indistinguishable therefore such NFAs should be denoted as n-type.
The BHJ solar cells with optimized donor-to-acceptor (D/A) weight ratio were cast from chlorobenzene with an active layer thickness of 110 ± 10 nm.
It is important to note that the LUMO energy levels of SMNFAs are lying very close to that of the donor molecule PTB7-Th, which is at −3.6 eV (Fig. 4b).
Conventionally, the energy of acceptor’s LUMO is lower than that of donor’s LUMO significantly and the LUMO-LUMO offset between donor and acceptor is well-known to be the driving force for charge-separation.
In the conventional case, exciton diffuses towards donor-acceptor (D-A) interface present in BHJ solar cell after its formation.
However, in the case of present scenario, where the LUMO energy levels of donor and acceptor are very close to each other, the creation of phonon can’t be the sole governing factor for efficient exciton dissociation.
Based on aforesaid explanation one can conclude that traditional understanding of exciton dissociation through excess energy by phonon emission is not entirely applicable under the present system of bulk heterojunction, where LUMO-LUMO offset of donor and acceptor is minimal.
Thus, it can be concluded that both the donor and acceptors contribute efficiently to EQE and photovoltaic performance of the device.Figure 7External quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra of (a) PTB7-Th:BAF-4CN and (b) PTB7-Th:BAF-2HDT based devices under different conditions.
We have achieved high efficiency in two fluorene benzothiadiazole based HDT and n-hexyl dicyano rhodanine terminated small molecule nonfullerene acceptors using PTB7-Th as a donor for solution processable BHJ solar cells.
BAF-2HDT and BAF-4CN exhibit PCE of 9.9% and 9.7%, respectively, which are the highest values reported so far based on fluorene-based small molecule acceptors.
Alternating donor–acceptor conjugated polymers, widely investigated due to their applications in organic photovoltaics, are obtained mainly by cross-coupling reactions.
Here, we present the synthetic route to ladder-like donor–acceptor polymer brushes using alternating copolymerization of modified styrene and maleic anhydride monomers, ensuring proper arrangement of the pendant donor and acceptor groups along the polymer chains grafted from a surface.
One particular type of CP are copolymers built from alternating electron-donating and electron-withdrawing monomers, which were introduced by the Havinga group and are called donor–acceptor (D–A) polymers [9].
The reduction of gap width could be achieved due to the interaction between the donor and acceptor molecules, which results in the hybridization of the HOMO and LUMO orbitals of both moieties and the formation of chains with a stabilized quinonoid form [11].
Furthermore, macromolecules composed of alternating donor and acceptor moieties reveal improved optical and electronic behavior.
They owe a donor character to a sulfur lone pair, which contributes to the π system, and they are commonly applied as macromolecules based on thiophene, which are characterized by a dominating quinoidal character [17] and desired edge-on orientation [18].
What is more, the features of both moieties could be further adjusted by proper selection of substituents [20] and are successfully applied in low-bandgap donor–acceptor polymer formation [10].
Thiophene (electron donor) and benzothiadiazole (electron acceptor) were attached to styrene and maleic anhydride, respectively, and the copolymer brushes were formed using surface-initiated RAFT polymerization and metal-free ATRP.
Finally, the pendant donor and acceptor groups were linked by means of oxidative polymerization with FeCl3.
First, to ensure alternating arrangement of mers styrene (St) and maleic anhydride (MA), molecules were chosen as cores of the monomers for further derivatization with donor and acceptor moieties, respectively.
Because of its electron-donating character, St was coupled with the selected donor side group, thiophene, by means of Suzuki reaction giving 3-(4-ethenylphenyl)thiophene (St-D).
Benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazol, selected as an acceptor unit, was attached to MA in a two-step process, consisting of amidation with an amine derivative, followed by ring closure in the presence of acetic anhydride to obtain the final N-(benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazol-5-yl)pyrrole-2,5-dione (Ma-A) (see Scheme 1).
More information on the actual composition of the chains can be derived from XPS results, which are generally in agreement with the simulated results for the alternating poly(St-D-alt-Ma-A) brushes (equal number of donor and acceptor mers).
The proposed approach based on the application of styrene and maleic anhydride as a platform for the formation of donor–acceptor polymer brushes was realized also by means of a metal-free ATRP technique.
Presented results prove the versatility of the proposed approach of the synthesis of donor–acceptor polymer brushes using maleic anhydride and styrene derivatives; however, a metal-free ATRP technique is characterized by smaller monomer consumption, slower rate, and higher smoothness of the obtained PB.
Synthesized polymer brushes with pendant donor and acceptor groups were next used as multimonomeric macromolecules in a template polymerization to obtain ladderlike PB.
Nevertheless, oxidative polymerization did not cause substantial changes (only 1–2 nm) in the position of the band near 310 nm, which could be assigned to the presence of the unreacted acceptor unit (see Figure S11 for comparison).
It can be explained in terms of the larger resistance of the acceptor groups to oxidation conditions.
While the presented results support the proof-of-concept approach for the facile formation of D–A PB, the polymerization conditions, grafting density, other oxidation agents can be further developed to increase the contribution of the acceptor unit in the formed conjugated chains.
We presented here a new facile methodology of synthesis of donor–acceptor polymer brushes via surface-initiated reversible deactivation radical polymerization techniques.
The styrene molecule coupled with a thiophene ring and maleic imide substituted with benzothiadiazole were applied as donor and acceptor monomers, respectively, which formed alternating copolymer brushes in surface-initiated metal-free ATRP and RAFT polymerization.
The pendant donor and acceptor groups, alternatingly aligned along the stretched polymer chains, were then subjected to oxidative polymerization with an FeCl3 agent, leading to the formation of conjugated brushes.
However, quantitative introduction of the acceptor, benzothiadiazole, groups into the formed conjugated chain is difficult in the oxidative polymerization process likely due to a higher tendency of thiophene to undergo this process.
The proposed methodology is also very versatile as other donor–acceptor systems can be formed by changing just the pendant donor or acceptor moieties in the monomers, and other polymerization methods (e.g., electrochemical polymerization) can be easily applied to achieve conjugated chains.
Such features and versatility of the method, as compared with catalyzed cross-coupling reactions, make it attractive for the synthesis of donor–acceptor thin layers with increasing applicability, especially in the fabrication of various optoelectronic devices.
Herein, we have designed a metal-free donor–acceptor dye by incorporating an electron deficient bisthiazole moiety as a linker in between the electron donor triphenylamine and cyanoacetic acid acceptor.
On the basis of the optical, electrochemical, and computational studies, dye D1 showed a better electronic interaction between the donor and acceptor moieties.
In this regard, metal-free sensitizers have gained considerable interest due to their low cost, flexibility in modifying structural design, and higher molar extinction coefficients.16 In the recent past, metal-free donor–acceptor (D–A) organic dyes have been synthesized and used as an alternate to ruthenium-based sensitizers for enriching the efficiency of the DSSC.17−24 Generally, metal-free organic dyes have donor−π bridge–acceptor (D−π–A) assembly,25 where intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) between the donor and acceptor groups occurs via π-conjugated spacer acting as a bridge.
achieved a notable PCE of about 9.8% for a metal-free sensitizer-based DSSC.35 Donor–acceptor dyes have been utilized by several groups to considerably increase the efficiency value of DSSCs.36
Bisthiazole is a widely known electron-accepting unit owing to the position of the electron-withdrawing nature of nitrogen of the imine (−C=N) replacing the carbon atom at the third position of thiophene.37 Bisthiazole having an alkyl chain has been utilized as an electron acceptor unit to make a blended structure with the donor moieties, such as oligothiophene38 and cyclopentadithiophene,39 exhibiting the unique optoelectronic properties to be used in thin-film transistors, light-emitting diodes, and photovoltaic applications.
designed new bisthiazole-functionalized dyes containing different electron donors and fabricated DSSCs with promising performance.41 Chen et al.
Herein, we have designed and synthesized a novel efficient organic bisthiazole-bridged sensitizer, that is, dye D1 with triphenylamine as the donor and a cyanoacetic acid moiety as the anchoring group.
The triphenylamine-linked bisthiazole-based donor–acceptor dye D1 was synthesized by the Suzuki and Knoevenagel condensation reactions.
The absorption profile of triphenylamine-linked bisthiazole-based donor–acceptor dye D1 has been recorded in DCM at room temperature (RT), and the obtained optical data is listed in Table 1.
The dye D1 exhibited a strong absorption peak at 438 nm, corresponding to the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) transition from donor (triphenylamine) to acceptor (cyanoacetic acid) moiety, as depicted in Figure 1.
The frontier molecular orbitals that further support these transitions are related to the ICT from donor to acceptor moiety, as shown in Table 2.
A shoulder absorption peak in the UV region is due to π–π* transition, whereas the peak in the visible region is attributed to the ICT from donor (triphenylamine) to acceptor moiety (cyanoacetic acid).
In summary, we have designed and synthesized a metal-free donor–acceptor dye by incorporating electron deficient bisthiazole moiety as a linker in between electron donor triphenylamine and cyanoacetic acid acceptor.
The photovoltaic performance of this donor–acceptor dye has been carried out by fabricating the ZnO nanoparticles (ZnO NPs)-based DSSC.
This improvement is attributed to the added HQ acting as an H+ donor for PEDOT:PSS to induce effective phase separation between the PEDOT and PSS, which were initially bonded by ionic interaction, after transforming the PSS into PSSH to stabilize it as depicted in Figure 2b.
Adequate donor/acceptor morphology of the active layer is required to provide carrier separation and transport to the electrodes.
The current review discusses some of the factors affecting the donor/acceptor morphology evolution as one of the major intrinsic degradation pathways.
For example, donor and acceptor molecules actually present at the external interfaces will determine the leakage current of the device, energy-level alignment, and interfacial recombination processes.
Intrinsic degradation pathways include electrode diffusion, morphology evolution, or generation of charge transfer complexes between donor and acceptor molecules which act as source of photobleaching and recombination centers [12, 13].
Adequate donor/acceptor morphology of the active layer is required in the nanoscale to provide carrier separation and transport to the electrodes.
For this reason, donor/acceptor morphology evolution during device operation is one of the major intrinsic degradation pathways and this topic will be discussed in detail in the present manuscript.
However, from this point and due to the very complex nature of the donor and acceptor blend, efficiency will often be determined by a balance of different electrical processes: transport, recombination, and extraction of carriers.
Mixed donor/acceptor domains are required to provide optimum surface area to enable efficient charge separation [21].
Indeed, any reduction on the donor/acceptor surface area will proportionally decrease the photocurrent as it will decrease the photogeneration rate, for example, formation of fullerene aggregates in polymer:fullerene blends has been shown to consistently lead to a reduction in the observed J sc by increased geminate recombination [23–25].
High photocurrent would be expected from the as-casted device as it shows a significant contribution of highly intermixed donor and acceptor and high interfacial area to provide enhanced charge separation.
As discussed above, the effect of the morphology between the donor and acceptor is key for adequate device operation.
Indeed, thermodynamically pure domains are more stable than intermixed phases, and changes in morphology leading to migration of donor and acceptor molecules will be one of the main causes of degradation.
Generation of these microscale domains will negatively impact charge separation as the contact area of donor and acceptor molecules will largely reduce the photocurrent.
These pathway include the use of ternary blends with compatibilizers such as block copolymers [45], amorphous fullerene derivatives [46], donor–acceptor systems with enhanced supramolecular interactions [47], functionalized side chains on the polymer [48], or thermocleavable polymers [49].
Regarding the morphological stability of different type of OPV devices by far the most studied systems regarding morphology stability by solution process are devices based on polymer donor and fullerene acceptor materials.
However, it is important to highlight that efficiency of OPV containing non-fullerene acceptors, small-molecule donor material and all polymer solar cells have sharply progressed very recently.
Additives with high boiling points are used to preferentially dissolve the PCBM providing a good intermixing and avoiding generation of large domains of pure acceptor molecules [53].
The functional groups are usually not selective and can react with all donor, acceptor and/or other crosslinking units.
In addition, the crosslinking unit may be added in the donor material [48].
Indirectly, C g is also sensitive to modification at the contacts as charge injection properties may impede the correct measurement of C g. Figure 8 shows Capacitance–Temperature measurement for a set of five different donor:acceptor systems.
8Comparison of devices fabricated using different donor:acceptor systems in terms of their response to a capacitance–temperature measurements and b efficiency decay as the temperature at which the capacitance is maximum (T MAX).
Comparison of devices fabricated using different donor:acceptor systems in terms of their response to a capacitance–temperature measurements and b efficiency decay as the temperature at which the capacitance is maximum (T MAX).
11 a j–V response of small-molecule donor OPVs to understand the effect of active layer thickness.
 a j–V response of small-molecule donor OPVs to understand the effect of active layer thickness.
In the experimental method, two reference devices are used to calculate the V fb for the extreme coverage cases, i.e., pure polymer and a device containing high proportion of fullerene (donor:acceptor ratio 1:6).
Alternatively, one of the limitations of the technique is that maximum absorption bands of donor and acceptor needs to be complementary.
13Sketch representing the method to monitor the presence of donor and acceptor molecules in close contact with a semitransparent electrode
Sketch representing the method to monitor the presence of donor and acceptor molecules in close contact with a semitransparent electrode
Efficiency of OPV containing non-fullerene acceptors, small-molecule donor material, and all polymer solar cells have sharply progressed very recently.
The photo-sensitive layers of OSCs are blends of an electron-donor (p-type) and an electron-acceptor (n-type) with nano-phase separated morphology.
Although the fullerene derivatives, e.g., phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) and phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) have been the dominant acceptor materials in a long time (Sariciftci et al., 1992), both the electron-donor and electron-acceptor materials have been extended to π-conjugated linear molecules, star molecules, oligomers, and polymers in recent years.
Comprehensively, the B←N embedded π-units are excellent electron-deficient moieties with good co-planarity, depressed LUMOs, broadened absorption bands, and high electron mobility, which are promising for the application of photovoltaic materials, especially for acceptor materials.
The HOMO and LUMO of P-BN were significantly depressed by 0.65 and 0.53 eV, respectively, in contrast to the values of P-CC (Figure 11A), indicating the electron acceptor property of P-BN, which was further confirmed by the fluorescence quenching of P-BN with P3HT in solutions.
These results demonstrated the B←N based copolymers are suitable for electron acceptor in OPV devices.
Using PTB7-Th as electron donor, the all-polymer solar cells based on P-BN-IID exhibited a competitive PCE of 5.04% (Figure 11B).
On the other hand, the BNCPT was also adopted to construct electron donor polymers by copolymerizing with its all-carbon analog CPT.
This polymer displayed suitable HOMO and LUMO levels and exhibited a PCE of 3.74% by using PC71BM as electron acceptor (Zhang et al., 2015).
Molecular structures, energy levels, and single crystal parameters for B-N embedded 2D π-conjugated units (A) and photovoltaic applications of compound 43 as an electron donor or additive (B).
OPV devices prepared with 43 as donor and PC71BM as acceptor gave a PCE of 3.12% and a Voc of 0.96 eV (Zhong et al., 2016).
For OPVs, the BODIPY also plays an important role, either in the electron donor or acceptor materials.
initially reported the BODIPY-based small molecules modified at α-position with styryl and meso-position with iodobenzene, i.e., 90a and 90b as electron donor materials, affording an optimum PCE of 1.17 and 1.34%, respectively, by using PC61BM as electron acceptor material (Rousseau et al., 2009a).
However, tailoring the meso-substituents with carbazole units along with device technique optimization by thermal annealing and solvent vapor annealing, 93a, 93b, and 93c yielded a superior PCE of 5.05, 3.99, and 4.80%, respectively, by using PC71BM as electron acceptor material (Jadhav et al., 2015).
revealed the BODIPY analogs of 95a and 95b, giving a PCE of 1.2 and 1.1% by using C60 as electron acceptor to prepare the vacuum-processed solar cells (Mueller et al., 2012).
By using PC71BM as the acceptor, 96a and 96b showed a moderate PCE of 0.65 and 0.64%, respectively, due to the over-strong aggregating ability of these dye molecules, leading to poor film morphology.
By using PC61BM as acceptor, moderated PCEs around 2.0% can be obtained (Kim et al., 2010).
Except for using as donor materials, the BODIPY-based molecules are also qualified for the acceptor materials due to its strong electron affinity.
BODIPY dimers bridged with BDT (99a), CPDT (99b), and DTP (99c) were synthesized to be used as electron-acceptor materials.
By selecting P3HT as electron-donor material, fullerene-free devices based on these BODIPY dimers showed PCEs from 1.18 to 1.51% (Poe et al., 2014).
reported the DPP bridged BODIPY dimers (100), exhibiting an competitive PCE of 2.84% by using PTB7-Th/p-DTS(FBTTh2)2 (0.5:0.5) as donor (Liu W. et al., 2017).
Owing to its strong electron-affinity, it's suitable to build conjugated copolymers for acceptor materials (Figure 15).
By selecting PTB7 as donor materials, all-polymer solar cells were fabricated, affording a high Voc of 1.09 V and an impressive PCE of 3.38% (Dou et al., 2016).
By selecting PCDTBT, a donor polymer with low-lying HOMO of −5.42 eV, to prepare all-polymer solar cells with 101a, a recorded Voc of 1.3 V can be obtained (Ding et al., 2017).
Using small molecule donor p-DTS(FBTTh2)2 to match with 101a also gave a Voc of 1.08 V and a PCE of 3.5% (Zhang Z. et al., 2017).
By using PTB7-Th as donor material, the all-polymer solar cells gave an improved PCE of 4.26%, which were interpreted by the enhanced driving force for the charge dissociation between PTB7-Th and 101b, resulting from the deeper LUMO of 101b in contrast to the value of 101a (Ding et al., 2016).
Therefore, all-polymer solar cells based on PTB7-Th/102 afforded a recorded PCE of 6.26% for N-B←N based acceptor materials (Long et al., 2016a).
PTB7-Th was selected as donor material to afford a competitive PCE of 3.76% (Zhao et al., 2017b).
106a and 106e were suitable for the donor materials due to their high-lying energy levels whereas 106d and 106h were applicable for acceptor materials owing to their low-lying energy levels (Long et al., 2017b).
In general, these BNBP-based copolymers are suitable for acceptor materials due to the strong electron-affinity properties.
Very recently, a small-molecule acceptor (107) built by end-capping BNBP with IC unit was reported, exhibiting a low-lying LUMO of −3.93 eV and wide absorption band (Liu F. et al., 2017).
By selecting PTB7-Th as donor material, OPV devices gave a Jsc of 14.62 mA/cm2, a Voc of 0.78 V, an FF of 62%, and a competitive PCE of 7.06%.
This attempt points out the great potential of BNBP as a building block for small-molecule acceptor materials.
We anticipate that the small molecules based on BNBP and its derivatives are also interesting and promising for non-fullerene acceptor materials.
For B-N covalent bond embedded π-conjugated units, they are suitable to act as electron-rich units to construct electron-donor materials owing to their high-lying energy levels, good backbone co-planarity, and high hole mobility.
For B←N and N-B←N embedded π-units, the low-lying energy levels, red-shifted absorption bands, and good electron mobility make them promising electron-deficient units for construction of acceptor materials.
To now, most studies have been focusing on the BODIPY-based donor materials and a few novel units containing B←N or N-B←N, e.g., BNCTP and BNBP were used to construct polymer acceptor materials.
As such, small-molecule acceptors established with B←N or N-B←N embedded π-units will presumably be an important family of OPV materials, although few examples has been reported to now.
Using phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC60BM) as an electron acceptor, we observed an increase in average power conversion efficiency from 2.3 to 4.8% in going from crude to fully purified material.
The best performing material, U3, was tested with an alternative fullerene acceptor indene-C60 bis-adduct (IC60BA), which has a higher-lying LUMO level of −3.74 eV (compared to −3.91 eV for PC60BM), and therefore results in higher open-circuit voltages in BHJ solar cells262728.
For example, for inorganic perovskite materials, molecular Mott insulators22 and organometallic donor–bridge–acceptor systems2324 it has been reported that selective infrared excitation can lead to strong modulation of the electronic properties.
Similar simulations with DFT were performed to evaluate the different properties of some conjugated polymers and also to determine the effects of the charge transfer in the donor-acceptor systems for an organic solar cell.
The active layer is formed by a composite, which is the mixing of a donor material with an acceptor material.
In this study, we considered the copolymer MEH-PPV-P3HT as a donor material, while we choose the PCBM as an acceptor material, which is widely used in this device [47].
The electronic analysis of these compounds elucidates that MEH-PPV-P3HT copolymers are electron donors and hole conductors as well as PCBM is electron acceptor and hole conductor.
Electronic Affinity (EA) and Ionization Potential (IP) are the electron affinity and ionization potential of donor materials, respectively.
An extrapolated intrinsic lifetime of > 5.6 × 104 h is obtained, which is equivalent to 30 years outdoor exposure.Through development of non-fullerene acceptors, OPVs have reached efficiencies of 18%, yet the inadequate operational lifetime still poses a challenge for the commercialisation.
Recently, ladder-type non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have led to OPV power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of ~18% in opaque cells, and 10% in semitransparent cells with 50% visible transparency8–13.
Compared to the highly stable devices employing a C70 acceptor with its high bond-dissociation energy, the most efficient NFAs contain multiple thiophene units with relatively weak chemical bonds that are dissociated at high UV and IR light intensities21–23.
In this work, we study solution-processed, archetype single junction solar cells with efficiency competitive with similar acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) type NFA-based solar cells.
To investigate the reliability of NFA-based devices, we choose a material system used for semitransparent solar cell modules consisting of the commonly used donor, PCE-10, and an archetype near infrared (NIR) absorbing non-fullerene acceptor, BT-CIC, whose molecular structures are shown in Fig.
In summary, we demonstrate a solution-processed non-fullerene, thiophene-based acceptor OPV with requirements of high efficiency, low cost, and remarkable operational stability simultaneously achieved.
The non-fullerene acceptors are (4,4,10,10-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-5,11-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-4,10-dihydro-dithienyl[1,2-b:4,5b′] benzodithiophene-2,8-diyl)bis(2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-5,6-dichloro-1-ylidene)malononitrile, BT-CIC, and (4,4,10,10-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-5,11-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-4,10-dihydro-dithienyl[1,2-b:4,5b′]benzodithiophene-2,8-diyl)bis(2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile), BT-IC.
Diketopyrrolopyrroles (DPP) have been recognized as a promising acceptor unit for construction of semiconducting donor–acceptor (D–A) polymers, which are typically flanked by spacers such as thiophene rings via a carbon–carbon single bond formation.
A novel DPPFu-based D–A copolymer (PBDTT-DPPFu) was successfully synthesized, consisting of a benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDTT) unit as a donor and a DPPFu unit as an acceptor.
Solution-processable semiconducting polymers have attracted wide attention thanks to their versatile chemical synthesis and the opportunity for low-cost fabrication of large-area flexible devices such as smart cards, bendable displays, radiofrequency identification (RFID) tags, and distributed sensors.1,2 In recent years, great efforts in molecular design have boosted the critical field-effect charge mobility of the conjugated polymers, with values now exceeding 10 cm2 V–1 s–1.3−9 One of the successful keys to achieve high mobility in semiconducting polymers is to maximize the intra- and intermolecular charge transport by means of improving: (i) polymer backbone coplanarity,3,10 (ii) molecular weight,11,12 (iii) orientation of polymer chains,13−22 and (iv) intermolecular interactions between neighboring molecules.23 In line with such considerations, donor–acceptor (D–A) copolymers have shown great potential owing to their tunable energy levels, strong intramolecular charge transfer (ICT), and intermolecular interactions between adjacent polymer chains.24−27 Moreover, recent experimental evidences have shown that local aggregation in this class of polymers over just a few chains is a sufficient mesoscopic structure to ensure high mobility and thus desired swift operation in organic field-effect transistors (OFETs).28
Diketopyrrolopyrroles (DPP) have been recognized as a promising acceptor unit for high-performance semiconducting polymers due to their tight π–π stacking and long-range order that is induced by the high coplanarity and cross-axis dipole.8,29,30 In the past decade, the incorporation of DPP into polymers for OFETs has attracted much attention in academe, with charge carrier mobility surpassing 10 cm2 V–1 s–1.7,8,31−33 They are typically flanked by spacers such as thiophene rings via a carbon–carbon single bond formation.8,9,34−38 However, when bulky side chains are needed and installed to prepare soluble conjugated polymers, they may suffer from a decrease in the coplanarity of the molecules.
A novel DPPFu-based D–A copolymer (PBDTT-DPPFu) was successfully synthesized, consisting of a benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDTT) unit as a donor and a DPPFu unit as an acceptor.
In contrast, both polymers show a similar λmax located at ∼760 nm when spin-coated as films, suggesting that both polymers have good backbone planarity and π–π stacking in the solid state and that in solution, PBDTT-DPP may assume more twisted backbone conformations originated from the single bond rotation freedom within the acceptor segments, which is not possible after ring-fusion.
The geometries were optimized at the B3LYP-D3(BJ)/def2-SVP level.44−46 It is found that without bulky side chains, the two backbone molecules show almost comparable backbone coplanarity, the main difference of which lies in the DAD segment of the PBDTT-DPP and the fused acceptor unit of the PBDTT-DPPFu.
It has to be noted that for the PBDTT-DPP polymer without ring-fusion, the DPP unit may assume different conformations originated from the single bond rotation freedom between the acceptor core and the flanking thiophene units, for example, if forced by steric hindrance caused by bulky side chains attached, while this is not possible for the PBDTT-DPPFu with ring-fusion in the acceptor segments.
This may infer that unlike PBDTT-DPPFu, PBDTT-DPP may suffer from a decrease in backbone planarity and/or stacking order or have a steric hindrance-driven conformational preference due to the rotation freedom of the single bonds between the acceptor core and flanking thiophenes when bulky side chains are used.
For all the molecules, both HOMOs and LUMOs are delocalized over the whole backbones (Figure 3), but ring-fusion on the acceptor units caused the HOMO wave function to partially localize more to these acceptor units while the distribution of LUMOs are almost unchanged, which can be accountable for the change in energy levels and gaps.
The ESP analysis results show that the oxygen atoms of the amide group on the acceptor units have the most negative surface potential, while C–H adjacent to S of thiophene rings have the most positive surface potential.
Additionally, it can be seen that the bridges introduced by ring-fusion of the acceptor units in this study also have significant positive surface potential.
The ESP analysis results agree well with the DFT calculations on the more localization of HOMOs on the acceptor units for the fused systems.
The isosurface map of the vdW potential evaluated by the Lennard-Jones 12–6 potential shows that the regions (blue isosurface) where the dispersion attraction effect surpasses the exchange-repulsion effect are favorable physical adsorption zones for intermolecular packing (Figure 5).48,52 Similarly, in all cases, these regions are mainly facing to the plane of the conjugated backbones, beneficial to π–π stacking, and the most favorable adsorption sites are close to the donor units of the conjugated backbones.
Ring-fusion of the acceptor units does not seem to cause much difference in the vdW interaction strength.
The performance of an organic photovoltaic (OPV) device relies on the efficiency of charge separation at its donor/acceptor interface1–14.
In the well-studied model system of polymer/fullerene blends, charge separation is mainly enabled by electron transfer from polymer donors to fullerene acceptors1–16.
The process of electron transfer dissociates the photo-excited Frenkel exciton (EX) to form an interfacial charge-transfer (xCT) state, leaving an electron on the fullerene acceptor and a hole on the polymer donor1.
In spite of a marked improvement of power-conversion efficiency (PCE) from 2 to 9% in the last few years31,36–41, the performances of all-polymer devices still lag far behind the devices using small-molecule acceptors (with PCE up to above 14%)42–46.
Apparently, iPPs may be excited in both polymeric donors and acceptors, so the contribution of iPPs to charge separation can be expected to be more substantial in all-polymer blends than in polymer/fullerene blends.
In this context, here we focus on the dynamics of charge separation in an all-polymer OPV blend consisting of a commercial acceptor of naphthalene diimide-bithiophene (N2200)51, which has been most widely used in high-performance all-polymer devices31,35–39,41, and a polymer donor of benzodithiophene-alt-benzotriazole copolymers (J51) having absorption coverage commentary to that of N220041.
Using transient absorption (TA) spectroscopy, we clearly identify an ultrafast hole transfer process (about 3 ps) with a quantum efficiency up to about 97% from the polymer acceptor to the polymer donor mediated by iPPs, while the photo-induced EXs act as spectators during this efficient hole transfer process.
In addition, the iPP-mediated hole transfer process has been identified in other all-polymer blends with donor J51 and three different polymer acceptors, implying that it is a quite general pathway of charge generation in all-polymer OPV systems.
In general, the generation yields of iPPs in donor–acceptor copolymers are much higher than those in homopolymers19,23.
b Chemical structures of the polymer acceptor (N2200) and donor (J51) studied in this work.
b Chemical structures of the polymer acceptor (N2200) and donor (J51) studied in this work.
In this study, the commercial polymer acceptor of N2200 (Fig.
The polymer donor of J51 was designed and synthesized previously (Fig.
In OPV blends with fullerene-based acceptors, the contribution of hole transfer from the fullerene acceptor to the polymer donor in the charge generation process is minor because fullerene mainly absorbs light of short wavelength.7 In all-polymer blends with the acceptor of N2200, the light energy harvested by the polymer acceptor can contribute substantially to charge generation through the process of hole transfer (i.e., charge transfer from the electron acceptor to donor) as observed in other systems with non-fullerene small molecule acceptors7,13,43–46,55,56.
The measured spectra indicate that photons absorbed by either the donor or acceptor are efficiently converted to electrical energy in the device, suggesting that the hole transfer from N2200 to J51 also contributes substantially to the charge generation in this device.
The hole transfer process is manifested in the correlated kinetics of ground-state bleaching (GSB) signals of the donor and acceptor (Fig.
Following the decay of the signal at 1.75 eV, the GSB signal of the donor gradually increases in the range of 2.0–2.4 eV (Fig.
2b, c), suggesting that excitations are transferred from the acceptor (N2200) to the donor (J51).
The photon energy of the pump light is below the gap of the donor J51, so exciton transfer from acceptor to donor could be safely excluded.
2c), which is consistent with the faster decay of the GSB signal in the blend film than in the neat acceptor film (Fig. 2d).Fig.
c The GSB signal of the acceptor N2200 at 1.75 eV compared with the GSB signal of the donor J51 at 2.05 eV.
d The GSB signal of the acceptor N2200 at 1.75 eV decays much faster in the blend film than in the neat film of N2200
c The GSB signal of the acceptor N2200 at 1.75 eV compared with the GSB signal of the donor J51 at 2.05 eV.
d The GSB signal of the acceptor N2200 at 1.75 eV decays much faster in the blend film than in the neat film of N2200
We intend to isolate the contributions of EXs and iPPs to the hole transfer process by carefully analyzing the difference between their dynamics in the neat acceptor and blend films.
The contributions from photo-excited EXs and iPPs to the hole transfer process can be extracted from the difference between their dynamics in the neat acceptor and blend films (Fig. 3c–e).
By comparing the lifetimes of iPPs in the neat acceptor and blend films, one can estimate that quantum efficiency of hole transfer is about 97% for iPPs, indicating a highly efficient charge separation channel through hole transfer for photo-excited iPPs in N2200.
On the other side, the kinetics of the EX signal probed at 1.12 eV is similar for the neat acceptor and blend films (Fig.
The measured time-resolved fluorescence (TRFL) spectra show that the decay dynamics of emission from the polymer acceptor in the neat N2200 film is nearly the same as that in the blend film (Fig.
The quantum efficiency of fluorescence emission from polymer N2200 is estimated to be comparable in the neat acceptor and blend films if absorption is calibrated (Supplementary Note 2), confirming that the TRFL dynamics represents the global properties in these samples.
Since fluorescence emission mainly originates from EXs, the similar kinetic features in the neat acceptor and blend films, which is consistent with the TA results (Fig.
Photo-excited EXs serve as a major channel for the electron transfer process as evidenced by increased decay rate of fluorescence emission of donor J51 in the blend compared with that in a neat film (Supplementary Figure 7 and Supplementary Note 2).
Such a difference is possibly responsible for the lower IPCE of the device in the spectral range of acceptor absorption (Fig. 1c).Fig.
4Exciton dynamics in the neat acceptor and blend films.
Exciton dynamics in the neat acceptor and blend films.
Charge separation happens at the donor:acceptor interface and thus the morphology of the sample plays an important role1,6,57–59.
The dependence of the iPP signal on annealing temperature is correlated with that of the donor bleaching signal (Fig.
In general, the donors and acceptors are mixed in the blends, forming fiber-like nanostructures as revealed in the PiFM images.
The reduced interfacial contacts between donors and acceptors can be ascribed to be the origin of reduced hole transfer rate in the blends annealed at temperatures above 110 °C.Fig.
The characteristic FTIR wavelengths corresponding to the polymer donor (1061 cm−1, green) and the polymer acceptor (1712 cm−1, red) are selected for better contrast of the PiFM images.
The characteristic FTIR wavelengths corresponding to the polymer donor (1061 cm−1, green) and the polymer acceptor (1712 cm−1, red) are selected for better contrast of the PiFM images.
The effects of blend morphology on the iPP-mediated hole transfer process are mainly in two folds: (1) The donor/acceptor interfacial area and domain sizes strongly affect the rate of hole transfer; (2) The interchain packing and the segregated π-stacking strongly affect the yield of iPP photogeneration.
Optical excitation generates both EXs and iPPs simultaneously in the polymer acceptor.
The charge density is calculated as a function of delay time and distance from the J51/N2200 interface with an initial incidence of EX or a positive polaron in an iPP state at the donor/acceptor interface (Supplementary Figures 12–15).
In the iPP case, the positively charged polaron moves from the interface into the donor at a constant speed (Supplementary Figure 15).
First, it suggests a promising way to optimize the efficiency of charge separation by using this iPP-mediated channel (iPP → x(P + P) state) from polymer acceptors.
This process represents a potential advantage of using all-polymer systems, because the formation of iPPs is generally much more efficient in polymers than that in small molecule acceptors7.
In the J51/N2200 system, EXs play a major role in the ultrafast electron transfer process from donor to acceptor (Supplementary Figure 8 and Supplementary Note 4), as evidenced by the strong quenching of donor fluorescence in the blend film (Supplementary Figure 7).
However, charge photogeneration in polymer/fullerene systems has been mainly explained by the EX-derived electron transfer process1–12,15,16 even in the systems with donor–acceptor copolymers where the generation efficiencies of iPPs are expected to be high2,13,14,68.
In the polymer acceptor N2200, the iPPs and EXs are simultaneously generated (Supplementary Figure 5) similar to the results reported by Tautz et al.19 and De Sio et al.21.
We have also studied other blend films with polymer J51 and three different naphthalene diimide-based copolymer acceptors, i.e., P(IDT-NDI), P(TVT-NDI) and P(NDI2DT-T) (Supplementary Figure 17 and Supplementary Note 6).
Technically, the photogeneration yield of iPPs in copolymers can be improved by engineering chemical structures, separation distances and energy-level arrangements of donor and acceptor units, and interchain π-aggregation19,20,23.
The generality of such an iPP-mediated hole transfer has been confirmed in multiple all-polymer blends with different polymer acceptors.
Polymer donor J5141 and acceptor N220051 were synthesized by the methods reported in literature.
The blend samples were made with 2:1 mass ratio of donor to acceptor.
A home-built non-collinear optical parametric amplifier pumped by the regenerative amplifier was used to generate the pump beam with photon energy centered at 1.75 eV or 2.05 eV for excitation of acceptor and donor.
A comparison of these porphyrin molecules leads to the following conclusions: (1) since the density of the electron cloud at the carboxyl group is similar, the three Por-1 molecules with different central metals have similar electronic coupling abilities with semiconductors; (2) the deprotonation of HPor-1 does not affect the molecular orbital; (3) ZnPor-2 has fewer π-electrons at the β-positions of the porphyrin ring than does ZnPor-1, suggesting that the π-electrons in ZnPor-2 are more delocalized; (4) furthermore, the molecular structure of porphyrin sensitizers does not consist any electron donor groups, and intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) is not reflected by the molecular orbitals.
Further, the bulk heterojunction polymer solar cells (PSCs) were fabricated using PDTBSeVTT-2TF as donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as acceptor with an inverted device structure of ITO/ZnO/PDTBSeVTT-2TF:PC71BM/V2O5/Ag.
This enhancement is due to the dissolution of PDTBSeVTT-2TF clusters into single molecules and small aggregates, improving the miscibility between the polymer and PC71BM and thus increasing the donor/acceptor interface.
Thin-film bulk heterojunction (BHJ) polymer solar cells (PSCs) composed of conjugated polymer as electron donor (D) and fullerene derivatives as electron acceptor (A) are promising for harvesting unlimited renewable energy from the sun [1,2,3,4].
An ideal polymer donor should have broad absorption in near infrared (IR) region and narrow optical bandgap to ensure the harvest of more solar photos to generate larger short circuit-current (Jsc), a deep HOMO energy level to improve the material’s stability and result in a high Voc device, and good hole mobility to obtain high FF [13,14].
Recent advances in designing and synthesizing narrow bandgap polymers are based on alternating donor–acceptor copolymer containing an electron-rich (donor) and an electron-deficient (acceptor) moieties into the polyconjugated backbone and this combination is considered as one of the successful strategies in reducing the bandgap and decreasing the HOMO levels, thereby allowing intermolecular charge transfer and thus leading to enhanced photovoltaic performance [15,16].
Though this report is impressive on the degree of fluorination, there is still a need for studies to explain the effect of fluorination on donor/acceptor (D/A) units of polymer with different chemical structures.
For example, the use of benzoselenadiazole (BSe), an analogue of electron acceptor benzothiadiazole (BT), as electron-deficient building block effectively lowers the HOMO energy level, broadens light absorption spectrum and increases hole mobility.
reported copolymer PBDT–DTBSe based on benzodithiophene (BDT) as donor moiety and benzoselenadiazole (BSe) as acceptor unit that exhibits broad absorption spectrum and the solar cells using such polymer as electron donor had a PCE of 5.18%, which was slightly higher PCE than that of the benzothiadiazole analogue [26].
In this contribution, we present a newly designed two-dimensional conjugated copolymer containing 4,7-di(thiophen-2-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]selenodiazole (DTBSe) acceptor unit, 3,3′-difluoro-2,2′-bithiophene (2TF), and electron-donating conjugated vinyl-terthiophene (VTT) for efficient polymer solar cells.
The photovoltaic properties of the bulk heterojunction solar cells based on PDTBSeVTT-2TF was investigated by using [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester as electron acceptor and the cells were fabricated in an inverted device configuration, ITO/ZnO/PDTBSeVTT-2TF:PC71BM/V2O5/Ag.
First of all, we varied the ratio of donor/acceptor (D/A) and the amount of additive in the polymer/fullerene blend solution where chlorobenzene is the solvent (Figures S1 and S2, Tables S1 and S2 in Supporting information), and learned that the optimal condition is 1:1.2 weight ratio of D/A with 3 wt % of 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) as processing additive.
This observation reveals that the PDTBSeVTT-2TF may form clusters in chlorobenzene at room temperature and dissolute into smaller aggregates and individual chains at higher temperature, which improves the miscibility between PDTBSeVTT-2TF donor and PC70BM acceptor and increases the interface of the two materials, leading to the enhancement of photocurrent.
However, both devices have comparable Voc, which is primarily determined by the energy difference between the HOMO of the polymer and the LUMO of the fullerene acceptor.
In this work, we designed and synthesized new two-dimensional conjugated polymer using fluorinated bithiophene (2TF) as donor and 4,7-di(thiophen-2-yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]selenodiazole (DTBSe) as acceptor units, anchored with electron-donating vinyl-terthiophene (VTT) conjugated side chains, each of which comprises two 2-octyldodecyl groups to improve their solubility.
This system worked because the absorption of each acceptor overlapped with the emission of each donor, and the relative Foerster radii led to an efficient funneling from the UV region to the deep red region through a multi-step FRET process (DPH → DPH, DPH → DBT, DPH → DBTT and DBT → DBTT) [42].
Through the combined effort of chemical design and synthesis, new polymer donors and nonfullerene organic semiconductor acceptor materials have emerged and enabled numerous photovoltaic blend systems to achieve power conversion efficiencies (PCE) in excess of 10%;3 a level considered as a milestone for commercialization.
Josey et al.37 tested the outdoor stability of some fullerene‐free OPV devices over around 40 days and concluded that the chemical structure of the acceptor molecule had significant impact on device stability.
OPV modules have been fabricated using D–A polymer:fullerene systems having much higher PCE.49 Indeed, the authors of this review have used two such materials and have performed outdoor lifetime studies, with device lifetimes demonstrated between 6200 and 10 000 h.47, 61 More efficient donor materials and nonfullerene acceptor materials have advanced the PCE of OPV devices to more than 10%, however, most of the stability research on these materials is still limited to laboratory conditions.50 More work is needed to move the stability testing to outdoor conditions.
Here, Δ is related to disorder resulting from the solution processed and phase separated polymer and fullerene regions, n e and n h are the electron and hole densities in the acceptor and donor domains at open circuit, and N c is the density of conduction states (DOS) at the band edge of the acceptor and donor.
In recent years, the emergence of nonfullerene acceptor materials has increased the PCE of bulk heterojunction OPV devices.
OPV devices using an unfused‐core based nonfullerene acceptor, DF‐PCIC, realized a PCE of 10.2%, and more importantly, after thermal treatment at 180 °C for over 12 h the devices retained ≈70% of their original efficiency.62 Similarly, OPV devices based on ITIC, another nonfullerene acceptor small molecule also showed excellent thermal stability.63 Under thermal stress of 100 °C for 100 h, no obvious efficiency loss was observed.
Due to the strong tendency of fullerene derivatives to form large aggregates at high temperatures,[[qv: 58b]] OPV devices using fullerene acceptors generally have poor thermal stability.
Replacing the fullerene acceptor by nonfullerene acceptors can avoid the morphological instability caused by fullerene aggregation at high temperature and so result in improved thermal stability.
Replacing fullerene acceptors by nonfullerene molecule is therefore a promising strategy to extend device lifetime, although a detailed investigation of the stability of such materials to other degradation mechanisms is still needed.
From Equation (1), it can be seen that V oc is particularly susceptible to the density of states (DOS) of the acceptor LUMO and donor HOMO.
The DOS in the band tails is dependent on the illumination intensity as such states can be occupied by photoexcited electrons (in the acceptor) and holes (in the donor).
Interestingly, replacing fullerene acceptors by nonfullerene acceptor molecules can also increase the air storage stability.
Using a nonfullerene acceptor, O‐IDTBR, P3HT based solar cells exhibited an efficiency of 6.4%, which is even higher than fullerene based P3HT solar cells.
Even though this does not change the total charge carrier density,80 such sub‐band gap states can still result in V oc loss.81 This is reflected in Equation (1), as the quasi‐Fermi levels move away from donor HOMO and acceptor LUMO levels and into the energy gap between donor HOMO and below acceptor LUMO levels.82
By replacing PCBM with the nonfullerene acceptor rhodanine‐benzothiadiazole‐coupled indacenodithiophene (IDTBR),84 P3HT:IDTBR based OPV devices lost only 5% of relative PCE after exposure to 1‐sun equivalent irradiance over the course of 2000 h. This degradation rate is significantly less than that of P3HT:PCBM devices, which under the same test conditions underwent a relative PCE loss of 34% PCE.
This indicates that the use of nonfullerene acceptors may be an effective strategy to increase the stability of OPV devices.
Here, demixing of the donor/acceptor mixed‐phase within the BHJ film was attributed to be the cause of this considerable efficiency loss.
Interestingly burn‐in losses are nearly negligible if the fullerene acceptor in PffBT4T‐2OD based OPV devices is replaced with a nonfullerene derivative.85 For example, PffBT4T‐2OD:EH‐IDTBR based OPV devices showed no degradation under constant irradiance stress for over 60 h, with devices having promising stability under a thermal stress of 85 °C (See Figure  14 ); a result pointing to a promising morphological stability of nonfullerene based PffBT4T‐2OD based OPV devices.
The improved stability against photo‐induced burn‐in loss of PffBT4T‐2OD:EH‐IDTBR OPV devices is attributed to greater resistance to photo‐induced electronic trap state formation compared to devices incorporating a PC71BM acceptor.
These results suggest better stability of fullerene free OPV devices over those using fullerene acceptors.
Finally, the burn‐in phenomena observed during the initial period of OPV operation is introduced, with burn‐in free OPVs based on nonfullerene acceptors being highlighted.
However, more systematic investigation is needed and outdoor lifetime studies of devices with nonfullerene acceptors are needed.
In general, outdoor lifetime testing is generally limited to the most well‐established material systems (such as P3HT:PCBM and PCDTBT:PC70BM), and thus it will be interesting to extend it to new donor/acceptor blends having high efficiency—even if such tests are initially performed over a limited period under the ISOS‐O‐1 basic testing protocol.
modeled the photocurrent spectra of a bilayer heterojunction OPV by using the 1D TMF, which was in line with experimental results of the photocurrent and EQE spectra.52 Here, the photocurrent generation process can be assumed as a result of the creation and diffusion of photogenerated excitons, which are dissociated by charge transfer at the donor–acceptor interface.
constructed bilayer OPV by using electrochemical deposition (with PS beads as the template) to fabricate a PEDOT:PSS HEL with nanobowl array structures on ITO substrate (Figure 14b).222 By implementing this spatial structure, a high absorption of incident light in small‐molecule‐based OPVs was obtained with respect to the simultaneously increased light path in the active layer and exciton dissociation efficiency by enlarging the donor–acceptor interface.
In particular, the promising strategy using non‐fullerene acceptors for low‐cost manufacturing has recently demonstrated high‐performance polymer BHJ OPVs with over 11% PCE and excellent thermal stability.236 For small molecule‐based OPVs, a high efficiency of 8.4% has also been achieved by utilizing two fullerene‐free electron‐accepting materials for the long‐range exciton energy transfer.237 As the potential alternatives to fullerene molecules and their derivatives, these newly exploited acceptors offer a large absorption overlap with the solar spectrum for sufficient photocurrent generation, together with easily tunable molecular energy levels for efficient carrier extraction.
New organic dyes comprising carbazole, iminodibenzyl, or phenothiazine moieties, respectively, as the electron donors, and cyanoacetic acid or acrylic acid moieties as the electron acceptors/anchoring groups were synthesized and characterized.
The influence of heteroatoms on carbazole, iminodibenzyl and phenothiazine donors, and cyano-substitution on the acid acceptor is evidenced by spectral, electrochemical, photovoltaic experiments, and density functional theory calculations.
Donor–acceptor (D–A) organic molecules are among the most important conjugated organic materials, and have attracted much academic and technological research interest [1].
Tuning different donor moiety or acceptor moiety in a D–A molecule would modify its physical and chemical properties.
So far, many organic donor-π-acceptor (D-π-A) compounds have been studied experimentally and theoretically.
In these compounds, the donor moiety facilitates hole injection and transport, whereas the acceptor moiety facilitates electron injection and transport [16].
Carbazole, N,N-dimethylbenzenamine, and phenothiazine are often adopted as donors as a result of their good thermal, electrochemical stability, and donating abilities [17].
The electrochemistry shows that the energy level of these compounds can be changed by altering the different donor moieties.
Recently, phenothiazine and its derivatives, outstanding heterocyclic compounds with high electron-donor ability, are attracting more research interest because of their potential applications in materials science, phenothiazines are also active in pharmacology as effective pharmacophores in tranquilizers, antituberculosis agents, antitumor agents, and bactericides [18].
The organic dyes commonly consist of donor, linker, and acceptor groups (i.e., a D-π-A molecular structure).
We synthesized four donor-acceptor π-conjugated dyes with a carboxyl group; the amine derivatives act as the electron donors while a 2-cyanoacrylic acid (or acrylic acid) moiety acts as the anchoring group for attachment on the metal oxide and as the electron acceptor.
As shown in Figure 1, D1–D3 are cyanoacetic acid-based dyes with carbazole, iminodibenzyl, and phenothiazine unit as the donor, respectively.
The absorption peaks at around 320 nm correspond to the π→π* electron transition of the conjugated molecule; and the absorption peaks at around 385 nm can be assigned to an intramolecular charge transfer between the carbazole-based donor and the cyanoacetic acid [23], providing efficient charge-separation at the excited state.
For the cyanoacetic acid and acrylic acid-based dyes (D3 and D4, respectively), when an electron acceptor (-CN) was linked to the vinyl bridge, the maximum absorption was red-shifted from 381 to 400 nm.
The red shift of the maximum absorption peak arises from the fact that one more electron acceptor (-CN) enhances the electron-withdrawing ability of electron acceptors and lowers the LUMO, thus reducing the gap between HOMO and LUMO.
The frontier MOs of D2–D4 reveal that HOMO–LUMO excitation moves the electron density distribution from the iminodibenzyl, phenothiazine moiety to the cyanoacrylic acid (or acrylic acid) moiety; however, the frontier MOs of D1 reveal that the electrons at the ground state (HOMO) are homogeneously distributed in both the electron donor group and the methylene bridge of the cyanoacrylic acid.
At the excited state (LUMO) with light illumination for D1–D4 dyes, intramolecular charge transfer occurs, resulting in electron movement from the donor groups to the acceptor groups (cyanoacrylic and acrylic groups).
Four organic D-π-A dyes by employing various donors (carbazole, iminodibenzyl, and phenothiazine) and various acceptors (cyanoacrylic acid and acrylic acid) were designed and synthesized as the sensitizers for DSSC applications.
The density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that HOMO–LUMO excitation moves the electron density distribution from the donor (carbazole, iminodibenzyl, and phenothiazine) to the acceptor (cyanoacrylic acid and acrylic acid).
A solar energy to electricity conversion efficiency of 5.53% is achieved for the phenothiazine and cyanoacrylic acid substituted dye D3, which is higher than the corresponding phenothiazine substituted donor-acceptor dye D4, and higher than the corresponding carbazole and iminodibenzyl substituted donor-acceptor dye (D1 and D2, respectively).
The change of focus toward non-fullerene acceptors has introduced an enormous amount of organic n-type materials and has drastically increased the power conversion efficiencies of organic photovoltaics, now exceeding 18%, a value that was believed to be unreachable some years ago.
In this Review, we summarize the recent progress in the design of ladder-type fused-ring non-fullerene acceptors in the years 2018–2020.
By analyzing more than 700 structures, we highlight the basic design principles and their influence on the optical and electrical structure of the acceptor molecules and review their photovoltaic performance obtained so far.
This Review should give an extensive overview of the plenitude of acceptor motifs but will also help to understand which structures and strategies are beneficial for designing materials for highly efficient non-fullerene organic solar cells.
OSCs have been the objective of intensive research for several decades, and thanks to continuous advancements in the properties of the absorber materials and in particular due to the introduction of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) have very recently surpassed 18%,1 thus being in terms of efficiency already highly competitive with other established and emerging thin film technologies.2,3
in 1986, a perylene-based acceptor was used.26 Only a few years after, Sariciftci et al.
published a seminal paper on photoinduced electron transfer from a conducting polymer to fullerenes.27 The outstanding electronic properties of fullerenes and their derivatives soon established them as dominant acceptor materials in the first two decades of OSC research.
Thus, a lot of our current understanding of how organic solar cells function is coming from this era.28 While with organic solar cells based on polymer/PCBM absorber layers maximum PCEs slightly above 11% have been reported,29−32 these values can be exceeded with modern n-type small molecular acceptors, also referred to as non-fullerene acceptors.1,33 In the middle of the last decade, first very efficient NFAs (e.g., ITIC, IDIC, O-IDTBR, IDT-2BR, or IEIC)34−39 revealing high performance in organic solar cells competitive or higher compared to similar devices based on fullerenes as acceptors were found.
Up to now, several hundred new NFA structures have been reported and applied in organic solar cells in combination with a large variety of donor materials.
The absorber layer of OSCs typically consists of a combination of at least two organic semiconductors, a so-called donor (an electron-donating semiconductor, mainly a conjugated polymer) and an acceptor (electron-accepting semiconductor—another polymer, fullerene derivatives, or non-fullerene acceptors) which are arranged either in a bilayer heterojunction or in a bulk heterojunction, in which both form an interpenetrating, bicontinuous network (Figure 2).40 This absorber layer is typically embedded between one transparent (e.g., indium tin oxide - ITO) and one metal (e.g., Ag, Ca/Al) electrode.
Next, the exciton diffuses to the donor–acceptor interface (2).
Due to a higher electron affinity of the acceptor, exciton dissociation occurs (3), leading to free electrons in the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor and free holes in the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor.
In Figure 2, the exciton formation, diffusion, and dissociation are shown based on light absorption in the donor; however, in non-fullerene organic solar cells, also in the acceptor phase, efficient light absorption takes place, leading to an exciton formation in the non-fullerene acceptor phase, followed by a diffusion to the interface to the donor, where the exciton dissociates into free charge carriers.
First, the optoelectronic properties of the active material, e.g., the HOMO–LUMO levels of both the donor and acceptor, and their relative difference in energy are important parameters.
On the other hand, for the realization of semitransparent solar cells, material combinations which allow the passing of certain wavelengths in the visible light spectrum can be chosen.45 Regarding the exciton dissociation at the donor–acceptor interface, the donor material needs to have higher HOMO and LUMO energies than the acceptor in order to enable this process, wherein typically first a charge transfer (CT) state is formed at the interface, which is subsequently converted into the free charge carriers, an electron, and a hole.
Thereby, the energy difference between the LUMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor has to be as high as the energy needed in order to overcome the exciton binding energy (which originates from Coulomb interactions of an electron and a hole).
Regarding the hole transfer to the donor when the exciton is formed in the acceptor, similar considerations apply for the energy difference of the HOMO levels of the donor and the acceptor.
Additionally, the difference between the HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor correlates to the maximal open circuit voltage (VOC) the device can theoretically deliver.
The second important issue is the spatial distribution of the donor and acceptor phase within the active layer, i.e., the phase separation also called phase morphology.
Whereas the first has a well-defined interface, the latter is comprised of a mixture of both with phase separation on the nanoscale (few tens of nanometers) in order to enhance the charge separation.46,47 This phase morphology, i.e., the domain sizes of the donor and the acceptor phase as well as their local distribution and purity, is one of the crucial parameters to obtain efficient OSCs, as it affects the transport related phenomena in the absorber layer such as exciton diffusion and therefore also their probability for dissociation as well as the transport of the separated charges to the respective electrodes.48,49 Since the diffusion length of an exciton in organic materials is limited within the range of a few ten nanometers,50 the donor–acceptor interface should be located within this distance from the place the exciton was generated in order to be dissociated into free charge carriers.
In addition, free charge carriers are prone to recombination.51 This happens mainly at the interfaces between the donor and the acceptor domains or due to traps within both phases.
A detailed analysis of various traps is described by Haneef et al.51 Regarding the charge transport, balanced charge carrier mobilities in the donor and the acceptor phase are beneficial.
Moreover, pristine layers of donor and acceptor would be ideal as realized in the bilayer concept, but here the yield of excitons reaching the interface is limited.
At present, the most often used active layers contain one donor and one acceptor in a bulk heterojunction.
In this case, the donor and acceptor moieties are a part of the same molecule (or oligomer, or polymer).
The imaginativeness of chemists has created a variety of new non-fullerene acceptors, and the amount of new literature focusing solely on NFA design is overwhelming.
It is not always necessary to strictly separate the donors from acceptors, as often common improvement strategies (such as chlorination68 and fluorination69,70), design strategies (ladder-type compounds71), or substance classes (such as diketopyrrolopyrroles72) are used for both.
The fast moving field of non-fullerene organic solar cells has been the objective of several recent perspectives and reviews covering small molecule NFAs and the corresponding solar cells in general (e.g., refs (33, 49, and 75−77)) or specific compound classes, for example, rylene dyes,78−81 Y-type82−84 and IDIC/ITIC-type acceptors,85 or polymeric acceptors.86,87 Also, design strategies have been reviewed, such as A–D–A-structure-type88,89 and fused-ring molecules90,91 as well as isomeric,92 star shaped,93 and asymmetric compounds.94
Due to the large number of studies reporting on the synthesis and characterization of NFAs and their application in solar cells, we only focus on data of solar cells containing one polymer donor and one small molecule acceptor material in the absorber layer and ternary solar cell data are not included in our discussion to be able to give a better comparability between the photovoltaic performances of the different NFAs.
The following chapters will give general ideas on the acceptor design of fused-ring systems.
The earliest (but still most common) design strategy for non-fullerene acceptors is the combination of a weak electron-donating core (D) and two strong electron-withdrawing groups (A) as peripheral units, also referred to as the acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) structure.95,96 This framework profits from π-electron push–pull effects, which is not only good for light absorption but also good for charge transfer.
A prominent example of this structural motif is ITIC (7-1), which was first reported in 2015.34 Since then, ITIC and its derivatives are among the most popular non-fullerene acceptors.
It consists of a planar, rigid, ladder-type core unit containing a fused aromatic ring system, namely, indacenodithieno[3,2-b]thiophene (IDTT or IT) referred to as the donor unit.
This unit is decorated with strong electron-withdrawing 2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (INCN or IC) end groups on each side of the central donor unit; thus, they are referred to as the acceptor units (see Figure 3, left).34,97
Possible design strategies for non-fullerene acceptors.
Left, illustration of an A–D–A-type acceptor (ITIC, 7-1); right, example of an A-π-D-π-A-type acceptor based on ITIC.
An important modification of the A–D–A structural motif was the introduction of an electron-poor ring into the central donor unit leading to the A–DA′D–A structure type.
The most prominent examples are the Y-series acceptors, which currently also hold the record PCEs.98 Another strategy is to include π-spacers, whereby compounds with the general structure A−π–D−π–A (Figure 3, right) are obtained.99 By selecting the appropriate type of π-spacers, the quinoid character of the conjugated backbone can be increased.100 Good results can also be achieved if asymmetric molecules are designed, for example, A–D–A′ or A–D−π–A (as well as combinations thereof).94 Such molecules often have larger dipole moments and improve packing in the solid state, which can reduce energy loss and improve the fill factor (FF) in solar cells.
All of the above-mentioned design principles can be found among the large set of new seven-ring acceptors published over the last three years.
Figure 4 contains a summary of all side chains and their abbreviations as well as selected donor materials used in the most efficient non-fullerene organic solar cells to date.
For a complete summary of state-of-the-art donor materials, the reader is referred to recent reviews and references therein.103−105
Summary of all side chains used in this Review with their respective abbreviations and selected donor molecules.
IDTT, the core unit in ITIC (7-1), is the most frequently used central donor unit for NFAs in the years 2018–2020, which is why we decided to discuss the influence of different acceptor units based on this donor core.
The ITIC acceptor has an INCN unit as an end group and possesses a band gap of 1.59 eV as well as strong and broad absorption in the region 500–750 nm.34 Being the first highly efficient NFA, many research groups investigated ITIC itself and its behavior in OSCs with different polymer donors, e.g., PBDB-T,106 PTB7-Th,107 PM6,108 etc.
achieved the highest PCE (11.4%) of ITIC-based single-junction OSCs with J71 as a donor.109 In 2020, this PCE was topped by Li et al.
with 13.5%, where the new polymer donor PBTA-PS-F was used.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with the same core unit bearing hexylphenyl side chains and different acceptor units.
Determined via the space-charge limited current (SCLC) technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
investigated an asymmetric acceptor unit substitution with fluorine and/or chlorine atoms.
Solar cells with PM6 as a donor polymer are reaching 12%.
With the polymer donor PM6, solar cells reach a higher efficiency (12%) than 7-5 with PBDB-T (10%).114,117 In 7-9 (ITIC-2Cl-β),117 one chlorine is attached on each side on a specific position on the phenyl ring.
With PM6 as the polymer donor and the same solvent additive, 7-6 possesses a higher efficiency of 13.2%, due to a much higher FF of 75% than 7-9.115,117 Qu et al.
A methyl group on the INCN acceptor unit (7-13, IT-M)119 shifts the energy levels upward but gives a similar band gap as ITIC.119−121 Like in 7-13, methyl groups are added to INCN in 7-16 (IT-DM),112 with the difference that two groups instead of one group are substituted on each side.
When the acceptor 7-13 is combined with the polymer PDTF-TZNT, the photovoltaic parameters are generally lower compared to ITIC, except for the FF, which reveals a value of 73%.1197-16 with the polymer J71 reveals a higher VOC and PCE but lower JSC and FF compared to 7-13.112 Yao et al.
through adding ethynyl groups to extend the π-conjugation of the acceptors.
strived to combine the advantages of the addition of methyl groups and fluorine on the end group, resulting in a molecule with two methyl groups and two fluorines on different positions of the terminal groups (7-17, ITCF).112 An electron-withdrawing group, like fluorine, should narrow the optical band gap of the resulting acceptor, whereas the electron-donating group, like a methyl group, should heighten the LUMO energy level.
Solar cells with PBDB-T as a donor gave an improved VOC of 0.93 V and FF of 72% but a lower JSC of 18.1 mA cm–2.
However, this leads to PCE values of 12.1%, which are higher than those of devices with 7-5 as well as with ITIC (7-1) and the same donor.114
Photovoltaic parameters reveal the same (7-19, 10.4%) or higher (7-20, 11.0%) efficiency than ITIC when combined with the same donor PBDB-T.
All three acceptors show higher VOC’s compared to their INCN-based counterparts combined with the polymer PBDB-T;124−126 however, 7-21 and 7-22 show very poor electron mobilities in the blend film, which may be the reason for the lower performance compared to their parent compounds.
An alternative strategy to modify the INCN acceptor group, is changing the aromatic ring system from benzene to thiophene, resulting in 2-(6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)malononitrile (CPTCN)-based end groups.
In the case of molecule 7-24 (ITCPTC)127 without any substituents on their acceptor units, the change in the structure leads to a similar optical band gap but lowered energy levels compared to ITIC (7-1).
Blended with PM6, the PCE of both acceptors (7-25 and 7-26) exceeded 13% and showed a VOC slightly lower than 1 V.128,1297-27 was also combined with PM6 and gave a VOC approaching 1 V and a PCE of 13.0%.127 The attachment of two methyl groups on the acceptor unit leads to molecule 7-28 (ITCT-DM).130 This adjustment upshifts the HOMO energy level further but leads to a similar optical band gap as in 7-27.
Combined with PBDB-T, 7-28 shows lower PV parameters than 7-27 with a PCE of 10.6%.127,130 Molecule 7-29 (IDTC)131 contains similar acceptor units as 7-24, with the difference in the position of the S in the thiophene ring.
PV parameters show, compared to 7-24 with the same polymer donor PBDB-T, a higher VOC and otherwise slightly lower values of JSC, FF, and PCE.131,132 Luo et al.
investigated the extension of the acceptor units in 7-29 by one (7-33, IDTTC)131 or two (7-34, IDTTTC)131 thiophene units.
The reason for that lies in the coarser morphology of these donor/acceptor blend films.131 The substitution of the outer thiophene ring in 7-34 with a phenyl ring leads to structure 7-35 (ITBC)134 and affects the energy levels by lowering them again.
In acceptor 7-36 (ITBC),138 the oxo group of INCN was replaced with a SO2 functionality.
Combined with the polymer FTAZ, it leads to a quite low VOC, JSC, and FF with a PCE of 4.17%.138 In molecule 7-37 (IDTT-R),140 a 2-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)rhodanine (RCN) acceptor unit is introduced, which heightens the HOMO/LUMO energy levels compared to ITIC.
In solar cell devices, the acceptor was combined with P3HT, which leads to poor PV parameters with the highest efficiency being 0.43%.
added a common acceptor group, a diethyl thiobarbituric acid (TBA), to the IDTT core unit.
Photovoltaic devices were built with PTB7-Th as a donor material which gave very different results on each acceptor.
The acceptor with branched ethylhexyl chains (7-42) shows the lowest performance with an efficiency of 2.52%.
The reason for these differences lies in the molecular packing in combination with the polymer donor and may be enhanced under the use of other donor materials.141
Combined with PBDB-T, this molecule gives over 1 V in OSCs but a smaller JSC, FF, and PCE than ITIC with the same donor material.142 Lai et al.
The molecules 7-44 (ITIC-Cl-δ-Th)143 and 7-45 (ITIC-Cl-γ-Th)143 possess one chlorine atom in the δ-position and the γ-position, respectively, whereas 7-46 (ITIC-2Cl-Th)143 contains two chlorines on the acceptor unit.
In solar cells blended with PM6 as a donor polymer, these molecules have a VOC approaching 0.90 V, a FF of 72–73%, and efficiencies over 11%.
The highest PCE was reached by 7-44 with 12.3%, which shows that the position of the halogen on the end group is crucial for the device performance.143 The acceptor 7-47 (A2)144 is also asymmetric, having an INCN end group on one side and a fullerene (C60) on the other.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with the same donor backbone and accepting units and different side chains.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Structures 7-48 (IDTTIC)145 and 7-49 (C8-ITIC)146 are the only acceptors with pure alkyl chains (C16 and C8, respectively) which reduce the band gaps significantly to 1.51 and 1.55 eV.
added fluorene units with alkyl chains to the seven-ring backbone, giving 7-51 (sp-mOEh-ITIC)148 with two spirobifluorenes implemented in the acceptor.
GIWAXS measurements were done with the neat film of the acceptor, giving a wide halo pattern with a mixture of face-on and edge-on orientations.148
Upon measuring the crystallinity in pure films, the acceptor shows mixed face-on and edge-on orientations.
PM6 also suppresses the crystallinity of 7-52 due to their good miscibility.149 Oligoethylene glycol side chains were introduced in acceptors 7-53 (ITIC-OE)106 and 7-54 (ITIC-OEG).150 They show a lower PCE than ITIC when blended with PBDB-T and PPDT2FBT, respectively.
The acceptors and polymers as well as ITIC itself were investigated with GIWAXS.
Under the same conditions and the use of the same polymer, the acceptor 7-52 reached only 9.0% efficiency.
Both acceptors were investigated using GIWAXS, giving an idea about the crystallinity, which is higher for 7-56 than for 7-52.149,152 Lee et al.
investigated molecule 7-56 and reported another acceptor, where the hexyloxy chains are replaced with ethylhexyloxy chains (7-57, m-ITIC-O-EH).
Blended with PBDB-T as a donor, solar cells show comparable parameters with 7-56 and 7-57.
When comparing the acceptor to 7-52, the introduction of fluorine blue-shifts the absorption maxima of the NFA and downshifts the energy levels, as was expected for halogens.149,152 The neat film of 7-58 has a broad lamellar stacking peak indicating weak side chain packing; the absence of π–π stacking peaks in both directions suggests a weak crystallinity compared to ITIC, just like the para-substituted 7-52.
Both molecules show similar energy levels and optical band gaps (1.58–1.63 eV); however, the efficiency of 7-60 is increased to 11.1% compared to 7-59 (PCE: 8.9%) when PBDB-T is used as a donor.155 Compared to ITIC, the absorption maxima of both acceptors are slightly blue-shifted, leading to a slightly higher band gap compared to ITIC, and the electron mobility in neat film is higher for ITIC than for 7-59 and 7-60.154,1557-61 (ITC6-IC)156 has a backbone and side chains similar to ITIC but additional hexyl chains on the outer thiophene rings of the donor unit.
The combination of modifying the side chain and variation of the acceptor end groups even further increases the structural diversity of IDTT-based acceptors, as shown in Figure 7.
For example, the combination of the structure 7-13—ITIC methylated on the INCN-acceptor units—with variation in the end groups on the central core—hexyloxy groups in the para or meta position—leads to the structures 7-62 (POIT-M)120 and 7-63 (MOIT-M).120 As expected, their electrochemical and optical properties are comparable with 7-13.
A comparison of solar cells using these three acceptors and PTZ1 as donor polymers leads to similar VOC values of approx.
0.97 V for all three acceptors, but the JSC as well as the FF increases from 14.2 mA cm–2 and 62% for 7-13 to 15.4 mA cm–2 and 65% for 7-62 and to 17.5 mA cm–2 and 69% for 7-63 (see also Table 3).
GIWAXS data of the three acceptors indicate that 7-63 has a stronger intermolecular π–π stacking interaction and thus has a higher crystallinity and more ordered molecular orientation than 7-13 and 7-62.
Moreover, the electron mobility of 7-63 is higher, which is also an indicator of why this acceptor works better than the other two.120 In very similar approaches, the influence of side chain variation on the IDTT core on the fluorinated ITIC analogues 7-2 and 7-4 was investigated.
Organic solar cells with PTQ10 as a polymer donor exhibited efficiency values of 12.5%.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with an IDTT core and different side chains and end groups.
Determined via SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
In combination with PM6, solar cells with 7-66 and 7-67 show similar JSC and FF values, but PM6/7-66 gives a lower PCE with 12.9% than PM6/7-67 (13.5%).159 The NFA 7-68 (IDMIC-4F)160 has again fluorinated acceptor units, but its side chains are dimethylphenyl groups.
Molecule 7-69 (m-ITIC-OR-4Cl)161 contains INCN-2Cl acceptor units and hexyloxyphenyl side chains, where the alkyloxy chain is present in the meta-position to the backbone.
Solar cells of the fluorinated acceptors with PM6 have high PCEs over 12%, with a maximum of 13.8%.149 Compound 7-72 (IDTT-OB)162 has INCN end groups with a methyl substituent.
The small molecule acceptor 7-74 (ITIC-Th1)135,163 has thiophene rings in the side chains instead of phenyl rings, and compared to 7-2, the energy levels are downshifted further.
However, 7-74 reached 12.0% efficiency, a better FF of 70%, and JSC of 19.6 mA cm–2 but a slightly lower VOC of 0.88 V using the same donor.
The non-fluorinated counterpart of 7-74, ITIC-Th (7-50), achieved 10.9% PCE.135 NFA 7-75 (ITThBC)139 has the same side chains as ITIC-Th (7-50) but contains a sulfone group instead of a carbonyl in the acceptor unit.
This difference may lie in the selection of the polymer donor and the resulting low electron mobility of 9.4 × 10–5 cm2 V–1 s–1 of the PM6/7-75 blend film.139,157
The extension of the π-system on the acceptor units by using naphthyl instead of phenyl rings leads in combination with alternative side chains on the IDTT core to molecules 7-76–7-81.164−166 Compared to ITIC, it has the effect that the energy levels are slightly upshifted for 7-76 (ITzN-C9)165 and downshifted for 7-78 (ITN-C9).165 The fluorinated counterparts of 7-76 and 7-78, 7-77 (ITzN-F4),166 and 7-79 (ITN-F4),166 respectively, have much lower HOMO/LUMO energy levels (see Table 3).
By screening different donor polymers, solar cells based on 7-80 reached with J71 the best photovoltaic performance with PCEs up to 11.1%, whereas 7-81 worked best with PBDB-T as a donor, yielding a PCE of 10.9%.164,165
Compounds 7-82–7-84 have all octyl side chains and INCN acceptor units with different substitution on the phenyl ring.
7-83 (MF2)168 differs from 7-82 in the replacement of one fluorine by one methyl group on each acceptor unit.
The exchange of the acceptor unit in 7-49 and 7-82–7-84 from INCN to diethyl TBA leads to structure 7-85 (IDTTA).170 Compared to 7-49, 7-85 exhibits lower HOMO/LUMO energy levels and a wider optical band gap.
7-86 with only one additional hexyl chain achieved a higher PCE of 8.51% compared to 7-87 (7.52%), which may be attributed to the higher electron mobility and thus faster charge transport.171 The same backbone with two additional hexyl side chains is present in structures 7-88 (ITC6-2F)156 and 7-89 (ITC6-4F).156 Like their parent compound, 7-61, the acceptor units are again INCN based with either one or two fluorines on each acceptor unit in 7-88 and 7-89, respectively.
Solar cells were built with PBDB-T, and the best PCE value (11.2%) of these three acceptors was achieved by 7-88.156
The structures 7-90 (IM-4F)172 and 7-91 (IOM-4F)172 have fluorines attached on their acceptor units and additional side chains, but unlike 7-88 and 7-89, these alkyl and alkyloxy units are located on the central phenyl ring of the backbone.
investigated the influence of substitution on the INCN acceptor units in spirobifluorene-containing IDTT-based acceptor structures (7-51, 7-92–7-94).
Whereas the introduction of the methyl group does not significantly change the HOMO/LUMO energy levels and the optical band gap (1.62 eV for 7-94, sp-mOEh-ITIC-M,148 and 1.61 eV for 7-51), the halogenation shifted both to lower values (1.54 eV for the fluorinated structure 7-92, sp-mOEh-ITIC-F,148 and 1.52 eV for the chlorinated counterpart 7-93, sp-mOEh-ITIC-Cl).148 Overall, solar cells with these acceptors and PBDB-T as a donor lead to similar efficiencies with PCEs in the range of 5.80–6.40%.
investigated IDTT-based acceptors with octyl side chains on the central core and CPTCN end groups (7-95, C8-ITCC) and compared them to 7-96 (C8-ITCC-Cl) with chlorinated CPTCN (CPTCN-Cl).173 In both cases, a mixture of structural isomers are obtained due to the different annulation of the thiophene ring.
The chlorinated acceptor has lower energy levels and a smaller optical band gap than the non-halogenated counterpart.
The photovoltaic parameters are also improved, giving a PCE of 12.7% and a slightly lower VOC of 0.95 V. In contrast, 7-95 reached a PCE of 10.8% and a VOC of 1.04 V.173 Similar structures with CPTCN acceptor units are designed by Ye et al., which differ in the length of their side chains on the central core being 6 (7-97, IDTT-C6-TIC),174 8 (7-98, IDTT-C8-TIC),174 or 10 (7-99, IDTT-C10-TIC)174 carbon atoms long.
Both acceptors were blended with J71 and implemented in solar cells, which yielded 12.4% for 7-100 and 11.7% for 7-101.175,176
For example, IDTT was coupled with the electron-deficient benzothiadiazole (BT) π-bridge and N-alkylated RCN end groups with different alkyl chains leading to the NFAs 7-102–7-105 (ITBTR-C2–ITBTR-C8).177 All four acceptors have similar HOMO/LUMO energy levels of about −5.30 and −3.70 eV, respectively, which are upshifted in comparison to those of ITIC.
According to GIWAXS data of the neat acceptor films, 7-102 tends to crystallize more than the other three, whereas 7-104, with the highest efficiency, shows more ordered packing compared to 7-103 and 7-105.177
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with IDTT core units and π-spacer/dimeric compounds.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Here, PTB7-Th was used as donor, giving a VOC of 0.93 V, a JSC of 12.6 mA cm–2, a FF of 51%, and a PCE of 5.89%.140
The difference between these two acceptors are the substituents on the BT, which are two fluorine atoms in the molecule 7-112 and two nitrile groups in case of 7-113.
The central donor core is of utmost importance for the optical and electronical properties of the NFA.
NFAs with INCN as acceptor subunits are the most common structures and thus are very suitable for the comparison of the influence of the central donor subunit (see Figure 9 and Table 5).
By replacing the thienothiophene units with benzothiophene subunits in ITIC, the acceptor 7-114 (NIDBT)183 is obtained and exhibits a broad optical band gap of 1.84 eV due to the lower HOMO energy level of −5.87 eV compared to ITIC.
Solar cells of 7-115 with PM6 as a donor gave similar JSC values than those with ITIC, but due to slightly lower VOC and significant lower FF values, the PCEs only achieved a maximum of 7.46%.184 In structure 7-116 (BDSeIC),185 the selenophene rings were swapped with the adjacent cyclopentadienyl rings bearing the hexylphenyl side chains.
Solar cells with PM6 gave similar results with maximum PCEs of about 7.10%.185 By replacing Se by S in this structure, acceptor 7-117 (BDT-IC)186,187 is obtained.
Organic solar cells were built with J71 as a polymer donor and revealed a VOC of 0.92 V, JSC of 17.3 mA cm–2, FF of 66%, and PCE of 10.5%.
In contrast, solar cells of ITIC/J71 are only showing a PCE of 8.99%.186,188 The molecules 7-118–7-124 have the same conjugated donor core but have various side chains introduced at the central phenyl ring.
GIWAXS data of the neat films indicate that the addition of hexyl or hexylthio side chains weakens the π–π stacking in the out-of-plane direction, which may lead to weaker crystallinity of the acceptor.
The electron mobility is rather low for all three acceptors.1867-120 (BPIC)189 comprises hexylphenyl chains.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with the same end group and different donor units.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Solar cell devices with PBDB-T-SF as a donor reached a higher efficiency of 12.1% than 7-123 with a VOC of over 1 V.191,192
Solar cells using J51 as a donor polymer show a PCE of 8.30%, a VOC of 0.84 V, a JSC of 16.2 mA cm–2, and a FF of nearly 60%.193 Chen et al.
Molecules 7-127–7-131 contain a pyrrole unit in the center of the donor unit but differ in the side chains.
Solar cells using PBDB-T as a donor polymer show comparable parameters to those of 7-128.196,199 Replacing this central thiophene unit in 7-132 with a cyclopentadienyl ring leads to structure 7-133 (F-H).200 The frontier orbital energy levels are upshifted, hereby the HOMO more than the LUMO, narrowing the band gap slightly.
Solar cells were built with PTB7-Th as a donor and achieved a PCE of 6.36%.203
In a quite different seven-ring structure, truxene was used as the central core for the acceptors 7-137 (Tr(Hex)6-3IC),2047-138 (Tr(Dec)6-3IC),204 and 7-139 (TrBTIC)205 with the difference between 7-137 and 7-138 being only in the length of the side chains.
The solar cells of 7-137 and 7-138 were built with PTB7-Th as a donor material and the devices showed moderate PV parameters, having efficiencies of 1.28% for 7-137 and 0.55% for 7-138, respectively.
By attaching electron-accepting units in the central core, the donor subunit is split in a DAD structure, resulting in an A–(DA′D)–A motif (see Figures 9–11 and Tables 5–7).213 This can be achieved by, e.g., introducing a benzotriazole group as the central core (7-140, Y1,2067-141, Y16,207 and 7-142, Y9,208 differing in the side chains on the central core) or a benzothiadiazole unit (7-143, Y5,209 and 7-144, BTP,211 differing also in the side chains on the central core) flanked by thienothienopyrrole units on both sides.
Combined with PBDB-T, the solar cells of 7-140–7-143 achieved efficiencies over 13% (for 7-142, even more than 14% due to the increased JSC values above 22 mA cm–2), good FFs between 63 and 70%, and simultaneous high VOC values between 0.87 and 0.91 V.206−209 Only 7-144/PBDB-T gave, compared to the others, lower PCEs of 8.80%, even though the electron mobility in the blend is quite high with a value of 9.4 × 10–4 cm2 V–1 s–1.211 These last three structures have been shown to belong to the most efficient acceptor materials currently known and are in the center of today’s OPV research.214 Based on the above described A–(DA′D)–A motifs, this new class of materials can be divided into three main groups according to their central A′ unit, i.e., either (i) a benzothiadiazole unit, 7-145–7-205 and 7-222 (see Figures 10 and 11), (ii) a benzotriazole core, 7-207–7-214 and 7-221, or (iii) a quinoxaline unit (1,4 benzopyrazine) 7-215–7-220.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with Y backbones containing benzothiadiazole units.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with Y backbones containing Se atoms or benzotriazole core units.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
investigated a new polymer donor, D18, and applied it in solar cells with Y6, leading to a PCE of 18.2%, which is the highest efficiency for single junction organic solar cells by now.
The PCEs of both acceptors with PM6 are enhanced to 11.8% for 7-150 and 11.1% for 7-151, whereas the additional oxygen in the 7-151 side chains lead to the lower efficiency, as well as lower JSC and FF.
GIWAXS data of the neat acceptor films reveal a preferred “slant orientation” of 7-150, which is neither edge-on nor face-on.
Compared to Y6, the energy levels of both acceptors are heightened, and the optical band gap is slightly broadened.
Solar cells of 7-160 showed increased PV parameters with outstanding efficiencies of 17.0–17.3%, whereas those with 7-161 and 7-162 have significantly lower PCEs of 15.6 and 11.4%, respectively (PM6 is used as a donor in all three cases).227,229 In the chlorinated NFAs 7-163–7-170, the outer alkyl chain was changed from undecyl to undecylthio or other alkyl substituents with different chain lengths.
Compared to Y6, the HOMO energy level of all three acceptors is heightened slightly and the optical band gap is similar at 1.35 eV for all three compounds.
The energy levels of both acceptors are similar to Y6, but the PV parameters with the donor PM6 deviate from each other.
Molecules 7-169 (HD-4Cl)232 and 7-170 (HDO-4Cl)232 have a hexyldecyl chain on the nitrogen atom as well as decyl and decyloxy chains on the outer donor unit, respectively.
Similarly, as found for the chlorinated and fluorinated counterparts, the acceptor with the butyloctyl chains gives a higher efficiency.233
The series 7-173–7-178 shows the difference of monosubstitution on the peripheral INCN units with either fluorine 7-173 (Y8),234 chlorine 7-174 (BTIC-Cl-m),235 bromine 7-175 (BTIC-2Br-m),233 trifluoromethyl, where 7-176 (BTIC-CF3-m)235 is an isomer mixture of γ- and δ-substituted acceptors and 7-177 (BTIC-CF3-γ)235 is the pure γ-isomer, and a methyl group 7-178 (BTP-M).236 The side chains of these NFAs are the same as in 7-143 (Y5) with undecyl and ethylhexyl chains.
All acceptors exhibit downshifted LUMO levels in the order from −Me (−3.81 eV), −F (−3.89 eV), −Cl (−3.91 eV), −CF3 (−3.97 eV), and −Br (−3.97 eV) compared to 7-143 (−3.78 eV).
All six acceptors were blended with PM6 and investigated in PV devices, which are showing PCE values above 13% except for 7-178 (4.26%).
7-173 shows a PCE of 14.3%, which is lower than the corresponding acceptor containing two fluorines on each side.234 The highest PCE of these five acceptors was reached by solar cells of the brominated 7-175.
The obtained efficiency was 16.1% correlating with excellent JSC values of 25 mA cm–2, which is also enhanced compared to the other brominated acceptors 7-171 and 7-172.233 Molecules 7-176 and 7-177, having a trifluoromethyl group attached on the INCN phenyl ring, show the same high JSC values, but due to lower VOCs, the solar cells exhibit up to 15.6% efficiency.235
7-179–7-184 are a group of acceptors with one halogen on each end group but on different specific positions and with deviations in the N-alkyl chains.
NFAs 7-185–7-188 have similar side chains but are asymmetric, concerning their acceptor units, as they have different atoms attached on each side.
Their HOMO/LUMO energy levels are in the same range, and the solar cells were built with PM6 as the donor.
With 16.8%, 7-188 reached, compared to 7-185 and 7-189, the highest efficiency.222 Other asymmetric electron acceptors were introduced by Li et al.
The HOMO energy level of 7-190 is heightened compared to 7-191, and the LUMO energy levels of both acceptors are higher than in Y6.
All three acceptors have one bromine and one chlorine atom on each end group on different positions on the phenyl ring.
The HOMO/LUMO energy levels are similar for all three acceptors, but the optical band gap has a higher value of 1.38 eV in 7-192 than for 7-193 and 7-194.
In acceptor 7-195 (ZY-4Cl),242 the malononitrile group in 7-160 was exchanged with a carbonyl unit, which heightens the LUMO level, whereas the HOMO energy level is similar in both 7-195 and 7-160.
Due to the use of a different polymer donor (P3HT in 7-195 and PM6 in 7-160), the photovoltaic parameters are not easy to compare.
A reason therefore can be the much higher electron mobility in the blend film of 7-196 compared to 7-144, as well as the more effective exciton dissociation and charge collection.210 The exchange of the benzene unit of the INCN group with a [c]-thiophene ring leads to the structures 7-197 (Y10)243 and 7-198 (BTCT-2Cl)244 with the latter having the same undecyl and ethylhexyl side chains as in 7-143 and 7-198 having additional chlorines on the acceptor units.
Solar cells were built with different polymers, namely, J11 and PM6, but in both cases, very similar VOC and FF values were reached; the PCE was higher for 7-198 (15.1% vs 13.5%) due to the higher JSC.243,244 The end groups in structure 7-199 (BTP-2F-ThCl)245 are a combination of the acceptor units of Y6 (7-145) and 7-198, having an INCN-2F unit on one side and a CPTCN-Cl end group on the other side.
developed the molecules 7-201–7-203, which again have INCN-2F acceptor units but lack the outer alkyl chains usually present in the Y backbone structure (see Figure 11 and Table 7).
The influence of halogenation as well as side chain variation was also investigated on benzotriazole-based acceptors of this type, leading to the structures 7-207–7-213.
Their HOMO energy levels lie for all halogenated acceptors between −5.56 and −5.69 eV, and their LUMO energy levels between −3.87 and −4.11 eV.
All acceptors, except 7-209 and 7-213, were blended with PM6 for the preparation of solar cells.
Solar cells of this acceptor with PBDB-T showed a VOC of 0.80 V, a high JSC of 26.2 mA cm–2, a FF of 72%, and a PCE of 14.9%, which are, except for the JSC, all slightly lower compared to 7-210.261
This new backbone design leads to downshifted HOMO and upshifted LUMO energy levels compared to similar acceptors (7-145, 7-158, 7-210, 7-212), which also increases the optical band gap of the materials.
In organic solar cells, the acceptors were blended with a new polymer called P2F-EHp.
The devices give a high VOC of 0.94 V, a FF of about 70%, and PCEs of 12.1% for the fluorinated acceptor and 13.3% for the chlorinated acceptor.2627-217 (AQx-2),2637-218 (AQx-1),2637-219 (TPQx-4F),264 and 7-220 (TPQx-6F)264 have a quinoxaline unit in the center with or without two methyl groups on the pyrazine ring (7-217 and 7-218) or ethylhexylthienyl as well as fluorinated ethylhexylthienyl groups (7-219 and 7-220).
These acceptors have about the same HOMO levels as the other Y backbone structures but have upshifted LUMO levels.
The PV parameters of devices with PM6 as a donor deviate highly from each other, except for the VOC, which lies between 0.86 and 0.89 V for 7-217 and 7-218 and between 0.92 and 0.94 V for 7-219 and 7-220.263,264 Devices with 7-217 have the highest JSC, FF, and PCE and revealed 16.6% efficiency, while those with 7-218 only reached 13.3%.
GIXD data revealed unbalanced crystallization properties of the donor/acceptor blend film with 7-218, which leads to reduced JSC and FF values.
Solar cells with the polymer donor P reach a VOC of 0.84 V, a JSC of 24.5 mA cm–2, a FF of 74%, and a PCE of 15.3%, which is lower compared to PM6/7-208.265 Luo et al.
introduced an asymmetric DA′D-backbone acceptor, 7-222 (BDTP-4F),266 with a BT core, INCN-2F acceptor units, and alkyl side chains of different length.
Solar cells with PM6 as a donor gave a high VOC of 0.90 V due to the broader band gap and a good PCE of 15.2%.
As discussed in the section “Impact of the Central Donor Unit”, a promising group of acceptors are based on the benzodi(cyclopentadithiophene) structure as a donor unit (see above 7-117–7-124).
Many structural variations of this donor motif have been presented in the last three years, as shown in Figure 12.
The structures differ in their substituents on the central phenyl ring and variations on the acceptor unit.
The first nine acceptors (7-223–7-231) have INCN-F or methylated INCN (INCN-Me) end groups.
The introduction of 2-(2-ethylhexyl)thieno[3,2-b]thiophene side chains on the central benzene ring leads to the structure 7-225 (BTT-MIC)269 in the combination with INCN-F and to 7-226 (BTT-FIC)269 in combination with INCN-Me acceptor groups.
Solar cells based on both acceptors were built with PM6 showing high VOC values.
Also, in this case, the methylated acceptor has a higher VOC of 1.03 V compared to 0.95 V for the fluorinated acceptor, but due to higher JSCs and higher FFs, the fluorinated acceptor 7-226 outperforms the methylated one, giving PCEs of 12.6% compared to 10.0% for 7-225.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors based on benzodi(cyclopentadithiophene) and related structures.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Solar cells with PBDB-T gave enhanced PV performance mainly due to slightly better VOC values of 0.94 V for 7-227 instead of 0.90 V for 7-224 and better JSC values (18.0 vs 17.6 mA cm–2).268 Modification of the fluorinated acceptors (7-223, 7-226) by introduction of either octyl side chains or 2-ethylhexyloxy side chains on the central benzene ring leads to molecules 7-228 (NCBDT)270 and 7-229 (BT-SFIC),271 respectively, both having similar band gaps (1.45 and 1.44 eV).
7-228 reached quite promising PCEs of 12.1% in solar cells using PBDB-T as a donor polymer.
Solar cells with acceptor 7-229 were prepared with PTB7-Th and led to lower PCEs of 9.52%.
The combination of PTB7-Th/7-235 gave a rather low VOC of 0.70 V with an efficiency of 7.90%.274,275 Molecules 7-236–7-244 have INCN-2Cl acceptor units but different substituents on the central benzene ring of the donor unit.
Pristine films of the three acceptors were investigated using GIWAXS, showing that 7-236 has an amorphous nature and disordered packing.
7-239 (NCBDT-4Cl)277 contains octyl side chains on the central benzene ring, and solar cells with PBDB-T-SF as the donor polymer achieved a remarkable PCE of 14.1% exhibiting a VOC of 0.85 V.2777-241 (NCBDT-4Cl)278 resembles 7-239 but differs in the alkyl group in the side chains, being octylphenyl instead of hexylphenyl.
The energy levels and optical band gaps of both acceptors are similar.
compares the acceptors 7-240, 7-242, and 7-243 with different substituents on the central ring.
Following, 7-243 possesses a PCE of 13.5%, which is the highest among these three acceptors.2797-244 (TOBDT)280 contains one octyloxy and one ethylhexylthienyl side chain on the middle benzene ring, which has no impact on the energy levels or the optical band gap compared to the acceptors 7-242 and 7-243.
With PM6 as the polymer donor, a similar VOC was reached as that for 7-242 and 7-243 accompanied by a lower JSC, similar FF, and also a lower PCE of 11.3%.280 Yan et al.
The NFA 7-245 shows the highest electron mobilities and in combination with PBDB-T also the highest performance in solar cells (PCE: 12.2%) for these three acceptors, followed by 7-122 (10.7%) and 7-240 (8.01%).189
The NFAs 7-248–7-255 bear CPTCN end groups and show additional variations of the substituents on the central benzene ring of the donor unit.
Solar cells with J71 as a donor gave a VOC of 0.90 eV, a FF of 70%, and an efficiency of 11.0%.188 Gao et al.
GIWAXS data measured from the neat acceptor films show that all three molecules have a preferred face-on orientation, but 7-251 has a higher coherence length and π–π stacking, which is beneficial for charge transport and may explain why the efficiency is higher.282 Zhang et al.
All acceptors were implemented in solar cells with PBDB-T.
The extension of the aromatic ring system of the acceptor end groups either with a thiophene or phenyl ring leads to structures 7-256 (BDCPDT-TTC)273 and 7-257 (BDCPDT-BC),134 both without side chains on the central benzene ring.
Besides, PV parameters (with PBDB-T) are similar with efficiencies of 10.3 and 10.8% for 7-256 and 7-257, respectively.134,273 Finally, the NFA 7-258 (BTOIPC)190 has ethylhexyloxy groups on the central group but replaces the INCN groups with ((2,3-dicyano-9H-indeno[1,2-b]pyrazine-9-ylidene)methyl) acceptor units.
Compared to 7-255, the optical band gap is increased to 1.45 eV, whereas solar cells with the same donor polymer show lower PCEs of 9.31%.190
The NFAs 7-259–7-270 comprise two N-alkyl pyrroles instead of the cyclopentadiene rings in the central donor unit and an alkyloxy-substituted central benzene ring.
The PV parameters of solar cells using the acceptors 7-259–7-261 blended with PM6 deviate highly from each other.
The reason lies in the molecular packing of the donor/acceptor blend films.
Solar cells of 7-263 in blend with PM6 reach efficiencies up to 11.5% with VOCs up to 0.93 V.288 By swapping the butyloctyl and ethylhexyl chains in 7-262, structure 7-264 (BDTBO-4F)289 is obtained; a further change to the INCN-2Cl groups leads to 7-265 (BDTBO-4Cl).289 Both acceptors share similar energy levels and optical band gaps, whereas the PV parameters (except the JSC) are higher for solar cells with 7-264, achieving an efficiency of 14.8% compared to the PCE of 7-265-based solar cells of 13.9%, due to better charge transport properties of PM6/7-264 blends.289 Ma et al.
prepared three acceptors with central ethylhexyloxy substituents and INCN-F groups, differing in their N-alkyl chains, i.e., ethylhexyl 7-267 (SNBDT1-F),291 ethylheptyl 7-268 (SNBDT2-F),291 and ethyloctyl 7-269 (SNBDT3-F).291 All three acceptors have the same optical band gap and similar HOMO/LUMO energy levels.
Other strategies of designing NFAs are the use of asymmetric donor units and/or the insertion of heteroatoms such as Se or Si in the core unit (7-271–7-303), as shown in Figure 13.
The asymmetric molecule 7-271 (T7Me)292 contains a backbone consisting of five thiophenes (T) and two cyclopentadienes (Cp) in the following order: T-T-Cp-T-T-Cp-T with CPTCN-Me acceptor units.
Solar cells with PM6 as a donor revealed a PCE of 8.96%.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with asymmetric backbones and/or additional heteroatoms implemented in the backbone.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
NFAs 7-272–7-274 have an asymmetric backbone with six 5-membered rings—4 T and 2 Cp—and one 6-membered ring—a benzene (B)—in the order T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T-T and different acceptor end groups.
The molecule 7-272 (MeIC1)212 shares the same end groups with 7-271; 7-273 (TPTTT-T)293 uses diethyl TBA as an acceptor unit, and 7-274 (a-IT)294 possesses INCN-Cl groups.
The three acceptors were blended with different polymer donors in solar cells, which makes them difficult to compare.
NFAs 7-275–7-288 have similar backbones as 7-272–7-274, but an N-alkylated pyrrole (P) substitutes a thiophene in the central donor unit, leading to the following motif: T-Cp-B-Cp-T-P-T.
synthesized a series of acceptors with the same backbone, INCN-F acceptor units, and different substituents on the nitrogen atom (7-277–7-279).295 The side chain has nearly no impact on the energy levels and the optical band gap of the acceptors.
Solar cells of both acceptors, 7-283 and 7-284, with PM6 gave PCEs up to 15.0% (7-284) and 14.4% (7-283).297 The molecule 7-285 (TPIC-4Cl)201 resembles 7-275, with the difference of INCN-2Cl instead of INCN-Cl units.
The PCEs of PBDB-T/7-289- and PBDB-T/7-290-based solar cells are 13.8 and 12.0%, respectively; however, the PV parameters are difficult to compare to devices based on PM6/7-281 due to the different donors.202 The thiophene-based asymmetric structure 7-291 (TPTTT-2F)299 (T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T-T) can be compared with the selenium counterpart 7-292 (SePTTT-2F)300 (T(Se)-Cp-B-Cp-T-T-T).
However, the PV parameters of solar cells with these molecules and PBT1-C as a donor are very similar.
compared the impact of the selenium position using structure 7-293 (SRID-4F)126 with T(Se)-T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T(Se) and structure 7-294 (TRID-4F)126 with T-T(Se)-Cp-B-Cp-T(Se)-T, both with INCN-2F acceptor units.
These results are consistent with GIWAXS data, where a closer π–π stacking was observed for 7-293, leading to a better charge transport behavior.126 Molecules 7-295 (TSeIC-4Cl)301 and 7-296 (TSeIC-4Br)301 have a similar backbone to 7-294 but have INCN-2Cl and dibrominated INCN (INCN-2Br) acceptor units, respectively.
Devices with PM6 as a donor give a high PCE of 13.3%, due to a high FF and a JSC of 22.9 mA cm–2.184 Molecule 7-298 (TSeTIC)302 comprises the same backbone as 7-293, but CPTCN end groups were used.
Solar cells were assembled with PM6 as a donor and give a PCE of 13.7%.3027-299 (BDSeIC2Br)185 and 7-300 (BDSeIC4Br)185 feature the same backbone structure with two selenophene rings in the donor unit with a T-Cp-T(Se)-B-T(Se)-Cp-T core but either with INCN-Br (7-299) or INCN-2Br (7-300) acceptor units.
However, the PV parameters of solar cells with PM6 as a donor show that the monobrominated derivative 7-299 yields higher PCE values (12.5%) than 7-300 (9.60%).
In 7-301–7-303, two silole (Si) rings substituted with two octyl chains were introduced into the donor unit, leading to the structure T-Si-T-B-T-Si-T.
studied the difference of INCN-2F (7-301, ArSiID-F)193 and INCN-2Cl acceptor units (7-302, ArSiID-Cl)193 in this structure with hexyl chains on the central benzene ring.
7-304–7-306 exhibit a “kinked” donor unit based on a central anthracene unit with two [b]-annulated cyclopenta[b]thiophene units on each side which lead to a double-kink structure in the arrangement of the seven rings.
Solar cells with the PBDB-T yielded a PCE of 4.20% (7-308) and 6.09% (7-307).306 The pyrane-bridged acceptor 7-309 (COi7DFIC)307 resembles in its double-kink structure the NFA 7-304, having INCN-2F units too.
Structures of acceptors with anthracene, pyran-bridged, fluorene, carbazole, dicyclopentathiophene, and dibenzothiophene-based donor units; structures with two seven-ring core units and truxene cores.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
The donor unit of structures 7-310–7-319 comprises a central fluorene and two thiophene units linked either by a pyrane ring (7-310, FCO-2F,308 and 7-311, FO-2F309) or a cyclopentadiene unit (7-312–7-319).
The material has a large optical band gap of 1.74 eV, and devices with P3HT as a polymer donor give an efficiency of 3.68%.310 In 7-313–7-315, the central donor unit is directly linked to a INCN-X unit.
introduced molecules with a similar backbone as 7-313–7-315 but nitro-substituted end groups, where NO2 is situated either anywhere on the INCN phenyl ring (7-316, F-N1)311 or on a specific position (7-317, F-N2).311 The nitro substitution does not largely affect the energy levels and optical band gaps when compared to acceptors 7-313–7-315.
Differences are also observed in the molecular packing of the two acceptors and acceptor/donor blends, indicating a more ordered packing for 7-317 neat and blend films.311 Molecule 7-318 (F-2F)309 resembles 7-317 in its backbone, but it contains INCN-2F units.
The NFAs 7-320–7-325 have a central carbazole moiety in the donor unit with cyclopentathiophenes fused on both sides, and they differ in their end groups and side chains on the donor unit.
Also, the other molecules show their potential as NFAs in solar cells with PCEs of 12.1% (7-320) and 10.9% (7-321).195,196,313 Structure 7-323 (DTCC-BC)134 shares the backbone and side chains with 7-320 and 7-321 but has extended aromatic acceptor units (cf.
Solar cells yielded lower PCEs of 10.7%, but different donors were used; however, compared to the NFA with unsubstituted INCNs (7-128), the PV parameters are improved using for both the same donor (PBDB-T) (9.25% for 7-128).134 NFAs 7-324–7-326 are still carbazole-based but with an octyl chain on the nitrogen atom.
Solar cells of 7-324 with PFBDB-T yielded 12.6% PCE, which is much higher than the efficiency of the INCN-containing counterpart 7-129 (6.20%).197 The PV parameters of solar cells with 7-325 and 7-326 (with T1 as a donor) are further improved, leading to efficiencies of over 14%.314 The energy levels of these two acceptors are quite similar, but the band gap of 7-326 is slightly widened.
7-327 (FTBT)315 has the same aromatic rings but the benzyl and cyclopentadienyl units have exchanged positions, leading to the donor motif T-B-Cp-T-Cp-B-T with three 5-membered rings in the middle, shifting the side chains on the cyclopentadiene units closer together.
Solar cells with PM6 give a VOC of 0.96 V, but all other parameters are significantly decreased, achieving PCEs of only 3.47%.315 The backbones of 7-328 (DBTIC-2F)199 and 7-329 (DBTTC)199 resemble the backbones of 7-320–7-325, but replacing the carbazole by a dibenzo[b,d]thiophene unit leads to the donor unit motif T-Cp-B-T-B-Cp-T.
Figure 14 also shows some acceptors with two seven-ring donor units (7-330–7-332) or a truxene donor unit (7-333–7-335).
Solar cells were built with PTB7-Th as the donor and yielded quite low efficiencies, being the highest for 7-319 (7.06%), followed by 7-331 (6.12%) and 7-330 (5.22%).312 Jiang et al.
Truxene-core-based acceptors 7-333–7-335 contain the same BT π-bridge and RCN end groups.
All three acceptors are wide band gap materials (over 2.00 eV).
All four molecules were tested in solar cells with the low band gap donor polymer PTB7-Th.
Among the non-fullerene acceptors containing five aromatic rings in their central core, indacenodithiophene (IDT)-based structures have become the most investigated.
Finally, acceptors based on other five-ring systems are summarized in the end of this section.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with IDT core units.
Solar cells with PTBT-T1 obtain a VOC of 0.89 V, a JSC of 15.1 mA cm–2, a FF of 65%, and a PCE of 8.19%.37 Since then, IDIC has been tested in blends with various donors, to name a few—PTZP (PCE: 11.8%),319 FTAZ (PCE: 12.5%),320 PM6,321,322 PBDB-T,322 and PTQ10.323−325 These devices typically possess good VOC and FF; however, JSC values rarely reach 20 mA cm–2, since the optical band gap of IDIC is relatively high (1.6 eV).
Interestingly, also bilayer-junction devices based on PTQ10/IDIC323 and PM6/IDIC326 blends reach efficiencies which are comparable to those of the BHJ-based devices with the same donors.
It combines the good properties of hexyl (as in structure 5-1) and hexylphenyl (as in 5-4) side chains and delivers similar or better PCEs with the same polymer donors (PM6, PBDB-T).
Analysis of molecular stacking in the films of the three acceptors (5-1, 5-4, and 5-5) confirms that the acceptor with hexyl side chains (5-1) exhibits a face-on stacking orientation; the same is found in compound 5-5 with phenylbutyl side groups present albeit with a weakened π–π stacking/crystallization behavior.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Solar cells of both acceptors with PBDB-T lead to similar PCEs values of approx.
The increased current density was attributed to a better light absorption of the octyl derivatives in film as well as improved intermixing with the donor polymer.333 Structure 5-15 (IDT-HN), which contains a cyclic alkyl substituent, demonstrated very similar improvements in the same parameters when compared to the unsubstituted compound 5-4, with nearly 70% increase in PCE (10.2% vs 6.11%) as 5-15 has an improved π–π stacking and a face-on orientation in film.334 The naphthalene-based analogue 5-16 (TPT-IN) has a packaging behavior very similar to that of 5-15 but smaller electrochemical and optical band gaps due to the extended aromatic system.
As a result, solar cells with the halogenated derivative and the same donor material have usually decreased VOC values but an improved JSC.
For example, solar cells with the non-halogenated derivative 5-1 show a better performance with PCE values of 13.2%324 using PTQ10 as a donor polymer, compared to similar values of 13.0% for devices based on 5-17 (IDIC-2F) bearing INCN-F units.336 However, both are significantly better than those of the acceptor 5-21 (IDIC-4F, 11.1%) with INCN-2F end groups.336 Solar cell data for the chlorinated structures 5-26 (BThIND-Cl, INCN-Cl units)341 and 5-27 (ID-4Cl, INCN-2Cl units)342 with another donor, PM6, also show better PCE values of 12.4% for devices with the dichlorinated NFA 5-26.
However, in the case of the octyl derivatives (5-2,3275-18, IDIC-2F,332,3375-22, IDIC-4F,337,338 and 5-28, IDIC-4Cl343), the best solar cell performances were obtained for solar cells with compound 5-28 bearing INCN-2Cl units (PCE values of 13% with BSC1 as a donor), whereas, for the hexylphenyl series, the best solar cells were reported for the combination of compound 5-24 (IDIC-4F) with PM6 (9.26%),340 which is very similar to devices based on 5-29 (IDIC-4CL9) and PM7.344 Regarding the phase separation and molecular arrangement, as expected, a face-on orientation is observed for the compounds which have alkyl side chains on the IDT core.
In the case of a six- and seven-ring central core (compounds 6-16 and 7-291, respectively), a dominant face-on orientation in film is observed, which is not the case for compound 5-19 with the five-ring central core.299 Since the size and shape of domains formed by the active layer components in the BHJ are mutually affected, changes in the acceptor structure can also influence the behavior of the polymer donor.
The donor in each of the blends had rod-shaped domains but with different radius.
When 5-27 was used as an acceptor, the radii of PTQ10 domains were the largest and the smallest in the case when 7-158 (Y7) is used.
Thus, despite the high crystallinity of the PTQ10/5-27 blend, it had the most unbalanced hole and electron mobility, lowest JSC, FF, and PCE.161 This study underlines the importance of obtaining further understanding on how the blend morphology is influenced by relatively small changes in the NFA structure in order to design more efficient acceptors.
IDIC and its halogenated derivatives are often used for the development of new donor polymers157,373 or small molecule donors.370,374−377
Furthermore, solar cells based on PBDB-T/5-30 blends reached a nearly doubled PCE of 10.1% and a higher VOC, JSC, and FF.345 Structure 5-31 with hexyl chains on the IDT core exhibits an improved crystallinity of the acceptor, thus reaching higher electron mobility and JSC values.
This results in an improved PCE (12.3%) in solar cells using PBDB-T as a donor.346 Incorporation of a double bond (5-32, DIDIC) between the two IDT units has a minimal effect on the HOMO and LUMO levels and consequently also to the band gap.
Solar cells of 5-33 and FTAZ as the donor reach PCE values up to 13.1%.347
Solar cells with blends of these compounds with a PBDB-T donor have nearly identical VOCs (consistent with the equal LUMO energies), but all other solar cell parameters are better for the benzothiadiazole linked compound 5-35 (PCE 10.5%).
The better performance of this compound was assigned to its higher planarity.348 Exchanging the hexylphenyl groups on the IDT cores with hexyl side chains gives structure 5-36 (BTIDIC) whose solar cells with the donor J71 give a higher PCE of 11.5%.349 If the benzothiazole linker is additionally fluorinated as in compound 5-37 (BID-4F), solar cells with even higher PCE values up to 12.3% were achieved (blend with PM6).350 Replacing the fluorine atoms in the INCN group with chlorines leads to structure 5-38 (BT2FIDT-4Cl), and solar cells of this compound with PM7 as a donor give similar PCE values (12.5%).351 The substitution of benzothiadiazole with benzoxadiazole gives structure 5-39 (BO2FIDT-4Cl).
Solar cells with the donor PM7 gave lower PCE values (10.4%) than the solar cells based on 5-38.
On average (disregarding the used linker, end groups, or the donor polymer), compounds with alkyl side groups on the IDT core have higher PCE values than those which bear hexylphenyl side groups on the IDT core.
Solar cells with PBDB-T revealed better PCE values compared to the unsubstituted compound (6.46% vs 4.94% for 5-4).356 The introduction of alkoxy groups on the central benzene in combination with halogenated INCN acceptor groups leads to compounds 5-50–5-54 with optical band gaps of about 1.55 eV.
Asymmetrical NFAs are obtained if only one sulfur in the IDT unit is replaced with selenium: 5-55 (T-Se),3595-56 (SePT-IN),3355-57 (T-Se-4F),3595-58 (T-Se-Th), all with different acceptor end groups.359 Their energy levels are slightly raised if compared to their sulfur-containing analogues (5-4, 5-16, 5-24, and 5-71, respectively), but the optical band gap is smaller.
Solar cells of these compounds with various donor polymers have lower VOCs but higher JSCs; thus, similar or higher PCEs are reached (values between 7.44 and 10.3%).335 In film, the selenium-containing compound 5-56 has a face-on orientation, just as its sulfur analogue, yet the π–π stacking appears stronger in the Se-containing compound.335
The same end groups when combined with an IDTT central core (7-85) led to a PCE of 10.8%.170 The NFA 5-61 (IDT-TBA/TPT-T),293,361 in which the octyl side chains are replaced with hexylphenyl side chains, shows similar photovoltaic performance in devices with the same donor (PCE: 6.70%).
The compounds 5-65–5-69 have similar, relatively high lying HOMO energy levels, and the variations of the LUMO energies correspond to the electron-withdrawing strength of the acceptor unit (5-66, IDNO-IDT has the highest LUMO).362,363 All (thio)isatine-based acceptors suffer from low electron mobilities; thus, solar cells with them yield low PCEs below 2%.363 Structure 5-70 (IBCT) contains thiophene-based indandione analogue end groups.
Combined with the donor L1, good PCEs up to 11.3% are reached.364 Compounds 5-71–5-74 comprise CPTCN end groups with slightly weaker electron-withdrawing strength compared to INCN.
Compound 5-71 (IDTCN) in solar cells with PBDB-T exhibits PCE values of 6.40%,378 and with other donors even higher values (PTQ10, 7.4%; PBT1-EH, 8.69%).365,366 Similar to its INCN-based analogue 5-4, 5-71 does not show a preferential orientation in film.365,366,378 Compound 5-72 (IDTPC) on the other hand has a clear face-on orientation in film, due to a replacement of the bulky hexylphenyl side chains with hexyl groups.366 Solar cells with PTQ10/5-72 yielded higher PCE values (12.2%).366,367 A methyl substitution on the end group’s thiophene elevates the LUMO energy; thus, a higher VOC can be achieved in solar cells with compounds 5-73 (IDTPC-Me) and 5-74 (IDTPC-DMe).
The discussion so far clearly revealed how modifications of the IDT backbone, side chains, or end groups influence the acceptor properties and photovoltaic performance.
Meanwhile, the increased electron-rich nature of the acceptors in the second class contributes to very low optical band gaps and thus large JSCs.
π-Spacers can also be used as non-covalent conformational locks, in “like–acceptor–like–donor” strategy (incorporating similar building blocks in acceptor molecules as those used in donors) or for the preparation of asymmetric acceptors.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors based on IDT core units and its derivatives (indicated by symbols next to the compound number) with different π-spacers and end groups.
A considerable number of acceptors (5-75–5-92) comprises IDT-based cores with a BT π-spacer and different accepting end groups (see Figure 16).
With the simple nitrile end groups in 5-76 (IDT-BC) and 5-75 (IDT-C8-BC), 6.3–7.3% PCE values were achieved (blends with PBDB-T, see also Table 12).379 Malononitrile derived end groups like in 5-77 (O-IDTBCN) gave a nearly doubled JSC in solar cells (blend with PTB7-Th), leading to high PCE values of 11.1%.380 Solar cells of 5-78 (IDT-CA), which contains the less electron-withdrawing cyanoacetate end groups, give PCEs of 4.19% (blend with P3HT).381 The change to heterocyclic 3-ethylrhodanine as the end group leads to the NFA O-IDTBR (5-79), which exhibits higher PCE values in solar cells with P3HT (up to 7.10%).404,405 Solar cells of 5-79 with PTB7-Th reach PCEs between 8.8406 and 9.9%,380 while those with the donor 2TRA surpass 10%.407 Nevertheless, the highest PCE (10.4%) was achieved using PffBT2T-TT as a donor polymer, despite a small LUMO–LUMO offset.382 Further variations of this acceptor were prepared with different side chains: ethylhexyl (5-80, EH-IDTBR),383,408,409 hexylphenyl (5-81, IDT-BT-R),38,384 octyloxyphenyl (5-82, 1-IDTBTRh),385 and 2,7-bis(octyloxy)spirofluorene groups (5-83, DTFBT-1).386 However, none of the solar cells using these NFAs reached PCEs above 10%.
Solar cells with PTB7-Th have similar PCE values (up to 9.4% in both cases).390 The Zhou research group has developed new acceptors based on a benzotriazole spacer (BTA series).
Similar permutations in the BTA-based acceptors are undertaken for BT-based compounds.
Compound 5-94 (BTA2) with the less electron-withdrawing oxygenated rhodanine end groups has higher LUMO levels (thus, a higher band gap of 2.0 eV) than its sulfur analogue 5-93 (BTA1; 1.87 eV) or the RCN derivative 5-95 (1.76 eV), showing the influence of different end groups.391 Solar cells with all of these molecules with J61 reached very high VOCs ≥ 1.15 V and in the case of 5-95 PCEs up to 8.25%.391 Solar cells with the chlorinated donor J52-Cl reached a remarkable VOC of 1.24 V together with a PCE of 10.5%.386 Fluorination of BTA (5-96, F-BTA3) minimally lowers the HOMO/LUMO energies; thus, the VOC for solar cells based on P2F-EHp is reduced by 40 mV, but the JSC and PCE are nearly doubled (8.38%) compared to the non-fluorinated 5-95 (PCE 4.62%).393 Replacing the ethyl substituent on the end group’s nitrogen of 5-95 with phenyl (5-97, BTA4) or benzyl (5-98, BTA5) has differing outcomes.
The phenyl substituent (5-97) elevates the HOMO/LUMO energies and the optical band gap; thus, solar cells with J52-F as a donor have a higher VOC than those of 5-95 but lower JSC, FF, and PCE values (5-97 gives 8.38%, while 5-95 yields 9.04%).
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
A number of acceptors were designed through the combination of different side chains (hexylphenyl or octyl) and rhodanine-based end groups (5-110–5-114).
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
Solar cells built from 5-119 with donor PBT1-C reached similar VOC values than those with the six-ring analogue 6-26 or the seven-ring structure 7-2.
Solar cells with J61 as a donor had moderate PCEs of 3.17% (5-122) and 4.06% (5-123).416 Modification of the IDT central core by the introduction of an additional alkoxy substituent on the terminal thiophene rings leads to 5-124 (IDTOT2F)414 and 5-125 (IDTO-T-4F),417 which differ from each other by the length of the alkyl chain (hexyl, octyl).
Despite an increased LUMO energy, solar cells with the same donor polymer (PBDB-T) have a smaller VOC than their sulfur analogues.
Solar cells with 5-127 reached efficiencies of 9.36%, and devices based on the difluorinated analogue 5-128 revealed PCE values up to 11.2%.418 Similar observations are made for compounds in which the hexylphenyl side chains of the IDT core unit are replaced with 2-ethylhexyl groups, as shown in the compounds 5-129 (IDT2SeC2C4; INCN end group),4195-130 (IDT2SeC2C4-2F; INCN-F),419 and 5-131 (IDT2SeC2C4-4F; INCN-2F).419 The optical band gaps are further reduced to 1.30 eV for 5-131, and solar cells with PBDB-T as a donor gave similar PCE values as those of the hexylphenyl derivatives.
Due to the different side chains on the central core, the furan-bridged molecules 5-132 (IFIC)420 and 5-133 (IFIC-F)420 cannot be directly compared to the thiophene- and selenophene-containing acceptors.
Solar cells of these compounds with the donor HFQx-T, show high VOCs of approx.
Despite the relatively similar optical properties, the solar cells based on the 3-(2-ethylhexyl) derivatives 5-135 and 5-136 (polymer donor: PBDB-T) deliver higher PCE values than the thiophene derivatives 5-121 and 5-120, 7.30% vs 6.36% for 5-135 and 5-121 (INCN groups) and 10.8% vs 8.85% for 5-136 and 5-120 (INCN-2F groups) due to the much higher electron mobility values.415,422 Solar cells with the chlorinated compound 5-137 reached the highest PCE (11.1%, blend with PBDB-T) due to even better electron mobility values.422 NFA 5-139 (IDT-TN)423 with extended INCN groups yields a lower electron mobility and weaker solar cell performance in blend with PBDB-T (PCE 5.89%).423 In structure 5-140 (ERCN),424 RCN end groups are used; in blend with P3HT, the material is yielding a moderate performance (2.64%).424 Also, the asymmetric IDT with an ethylhexylthiophene linker, one fullerene, and one INCN end group (5-138, A1) yields low PCE values (1.63% in a blend with J71).144 A further altnernative π-spacer is octylthiophene, present in the molecules 5-141 (IDTP-P-C)425 and 5-142 (IDTP-O-C).425 The combination with INCN-2F end groups leads to structure 5-141, with very similar properties as the analogue compounds with thiophene (5-120), methylthiophene (5-134), and 2-ethylhexylthiophene (5-136).
As a result, solar cells of 5-145 with PTB7-Th as a donor have a better JSC, FF, and PCE (13.1%) than those of 5-144 (PCE 10.8%).
Interestingly, the symmetric molecules with two 3-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-thiophene spacers 5-146 (o-IO2; octyl chains on the IDT core) and 5-147 (p-IO2; with hexylphenyl groups on IDT) both exhibit even lower optical band gaps with values of 1.20 eV for 5-146 and 1.24 eV for 5-147.427 Compound 5-146, due to its symmetric nature, has a stronger crystallization tendency than the asymmetric 5-145, which leads to a higher degree of phase separation in the absorber layer with PTB7-Th as a donor, causing a negative influence on exciton dissociation, thus lowering the PCE (9.3%).
The highest PCE values of 13.2% were obtained in devices with Si25-H2 as donor.428 The INCN-2Cl analogue 5-148 (IEICO-4Cl) reached only a mediocre performance of 1.35% in solar cells with D18.136 Using the INCN-F group instead leads to 5-149 (IOTIC-2F) with an increased optical band gap due to the higher lying LUMO energy level.
Thus, solar cells with PTB7-Th achieve higher VOC values compared to the before discussed acceptors and PCE values went up to 12.1%.181 The non-halogenated INCN compound 5-150 (IEICO) has a larger optical band gap, as expected.
Solar cells with various donor polymers gave only moderate PCE values, e.g., with J52 a value of 5.13%431 and with PTB7-Th values between 6.0 and 6.7%,429,458 while 5-151 (ORCN) with RCN-based end groups reached a similar PCE with P3HT (6.40%).424 A further, structurally similar, π-spacer is octyloxythiophene (spacer unit 20), which is used in compounds 5-152 (IDTP-P-O) and 5-153 (IDTP-O-O).
Both compounds in blend with PTB7-Th have lower efficiencies (>8.4%) than those of 5-147 (ethylhexyloxythiophene spacer derivatives), with the same donor (PCE above 10%).425 Compound 5-154 has a 4-(hexyloxy)-thiophene spacer (spacer unit 21 in Figure 16); thus, the alkoxy group is on the far side of the IDT unit in contrast to the octyloxy group in 5-152 or the 2-ethylhexyloxy unit in 5-147.
Solar cells with PTB7-Th are showing an increased JSC without reducing other solar cell parameters (compared to 5-147), and thus delivers a better PCE of 13.2%.430 The PCE values drop to 7.6% in solar cells of PTB7-Th/NFA 5-157 (A134), in which the hexylphenyl side chains are replaced with hexyl groups, mainly due to a much lower JSC.275 Structures 5-158 (i-IEICO),4315-159 (i-IEICO-2F),432 and 5-161 (i-IEICO-4F)433 use the 2-(2-ethylhexyloxythiophene) linker with INCN, INCN-F, and INCN-2F, but these acceptor end groups are attached at the 4-position of the thiophene ring and thus these compounds are regioisomers to compounds 5-150, 5-149, and 5-147, respectively.
However, solar cells with the donor J52 have a lower performance (PCE of 7.65%), which might be due to the 1 order of magnitude reduced electron mobility.432 Structures 5-162 (i-cc23) and 5-163 (i-cc34) comprise the thiophene modifications (end group r and s in Figure 16) of the INCN end groups.
Both acceptors have nearly identical optical band gaps, and also, the solar cell parameters are very similar (albeit with different donors).
Blends of 5-164 with PBDB-T show a high JSC (21.6 mA cm–2) and an excellent FF (71%) and consequently reached a PCE of 14.0%.435 In acceptor 5-165 (i-mO-4Cl), the INCN-2F end group is replaced with INCN-2Cl units, which has a negative influence on solar cells with the same donor (PCE: 7.41%).435 Acceptor 5-166 (IDT-OT) contains 3,4-dimethoxythiophene spacer units, but its blends with PBDB-T did not reach high efficiencies (3.32%).436 Better results are obtained with 5-167 (IDTS-4F) with the same π-spacer but fluorinated end groups and oxygen replaced with sulfur in the central core side chains, i.e., para-hexylthiophenyl groups.
Solar cells using a blend with the donor polymers PM6 or PM7 give efficiencies over 12%.4375-168 (IDT2ST-4F) contains a 3,4-di(octylthio)thiophene π-spacer (spacer unit 26) and INCN-2F groups.438 Oxygen analogous compounds having a 3,4-di(hexyloxy)thiophene π-spacer (spacer unit 27) are represented by the structures 5-169 (ITOIC) with INCN, 5-170 (ITOIC-F) with INCN-F, and 5-171 (ITOIC-2F) with INCN-2F groups.439 As expected, fluorination leads to lower frontier orbital energies, especially on the LUMO and thus to lower band gaps decreasing with the fluorine content from 1.55 eV for 5-169 to 1.50 eV for 5-170 and 1.45 eV for 5-171.
The optical band gaps of all of these compounds are nearly identical (between 1.41 and 1.45 eV), and in solar cells, also the VOC values (with PBDB-T donor) do not differ significantly (0.88 ± 0.03 V).
This might be the reason for the improved electron mobility, JSC, and FF.440 At the same time, adding two hexyl chains as in 5-174 again increases the electron mobility (this compound has a face-on orientation in film).441 The π-spacers used in acceptors 5-175 (ITCIC)421 and 5-176 (IDT-3MT)415 differ from other thiophene-based spacers reviewed so far as being the only ones with an electron-withdrawing substituent.
The outer isomer (5-178) is slightly better with a PCE of 11.1% (blend with PBDB-T).442 Linking the two thiophene molecules with a double bond as in 5-179 (ITVT) leads to a lower PCE of 5.84% (PBZ as donor).443 Also, the acceptor 5-180 (A401) with four INCN accepting units attached to a terthiophene branching unit (see spacer unit 36 in Figure 16) did not lead to a high PCE in solar cells with PBDB-T (7.54%).444 Compound 5-181 (IDTO-TT-4F) comprises thienothiophene spacer units.
This modification leads to a slightly reduced PCE (10.2%, in blend with PBDB-T) if compared to a simple thiophene linked molecule (5-125, 10.7%).417 The cyclopentadithiophene π-bridge present in acceptor 5-182 (IDTC-4Cl) with INCN-2Cl groups shows relatively good absorption properties expanding until 900 nm, and thus, solar cells with PBDB-T have relatively high JSC values of 19.2 mA cm–2.
The excellent electron mobility in combination with the red-shifted absorption maximum gives a high JSC of 24.9 mA cm–2 and a FF of 69%, resulting in a PCE of 10.7%.446 In addition to the change from octyl to hexyl groups on the IDT core, the INCN group has been replaced with RCN acceptor units in compound 5-187 (ATT-5).447 These changes lead to a blue-shift in the absorption maximum.
Solar cells with PTB7-Th show very similar efficiency values: 9.82% for 5-188, 9.43% for 5-189, 10.9% for 5-190, and 7.01% for 5-191.448 By linking RCN acceptor units with IDT cores with different side chains via an octyloxycarbonyl-substituted thienothiophene spacer (43), NFA structures 5-192 (ATT-1)447 with para-hexylphenyl side chains, 5-193 (ATT-4)447 with hexyl side chains, 5-194 (ATT-6)449 with meta-hexylphenyl groups, and 5-195 (ATT-7)449 with meta-hexyloxyphenyl groups have been introduced.
Asymmetric acceptors 5-201–5-204 were prepared by using only one π-spacer combined with an acceptor unit (spacer units 48-51) and using an INCN end group without a spacer on the other side.
Structure 5-201 (IDTBF) was prepared by end-capping the IDT core with a INCN-2F group on one side and a BT π-spacer with a rhodanine end group (spacer unit 48) on the other side.454 This molecule can be roughly compared to O-IDTBR (5-79), the symmetric acceptor with two BT π-spacers and rhodanine end groups.
The maximum PCE obtained with PM6 is 10.4%, and it is in the same performance range as the solar cells of 5-79 with different donors (see discussion above).
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with miscellaneous five-ring core units and varying side chains, end groups, and π-spacers.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
A high JSC of 21.2 mA cm–2 was obtained for solar cells with PM6 as a donor (PCE 8.94%).462
The acceptor has an optical band gap of 1.55 eV, and its solar cells with PM6 reach a high VOC (1.00 V) and an overall PCE of 9.56%.464 Moreover, several acceptors contain a fused (D–A′–D) core, which is formed via fusion of an electron-deficient BT to two thienopyrrole units.
The combination of this core with INCN-2F end groups leads to structure 5-210 (BTPT-4F) having low lying energy levels and an optical band gap of 1.45 eV.213 Solar cells with the donor P2F-EHp yielded only a PCE of 1.09%, which is a hard contrast to the seven-ring analogue 7-145 (BTPTT-4F/Y6) which achieved a PCE of 16.0%.
Also, in this case, 5-211 had an edge-on orientation in neat film, 5-212 a mixed edge-on and face-on orientation, and the best performing NFA, 5-213, a face-on orientation.465 Quinacridone-based acceptors 5-214–5-216 (DCNQA-BT-Tx) are interesting due to their reversed structure; e.g., the electron-rich thiophenes are used as end groups.
However, solar cells with P3HT as a donor gave only PCE values below 1% in all cases.466
introduced boron-containing NFAs by the reaction of different 2,5-diphenylpyrazine derivatives with BCl3 and subsequent substitution of the chlorides with further aryl groups (structures 5-217–5-220).467 The best solar cells were assembled from 5-218 which, blended with PTB7-Th, gave a VOC of 0.87 V and a JSC of 5.4 mA cm–2, reaching a PCE of 1.9%; the solar cells of the other three compounds reached PCEs <1%.467 Acceptors 5-221–5-223 contain a 6,12-dihydrodiindeno[1,2-b:1′,2′-e]pyrazine as a core linked via a thiophene π-spacer to INCN-based end groups, i.e., INCN (5-221, IPY-T-IC), INCN-2Cl (5-222, IPY-T-ICCl), and INCN-2F (5-223, IPY-T-ICF).468 Structure 5-221 has the highest LUMO, and thus, also its solar cells with PTB7-Th as a donor yielded a VOC (0.83 V) higher than the solar cells of its halogenated analogues.
prepared acceptor structures by combining a 5,11-dihydroindolo[3,2-b]carbazole core with a BT spacer and the rhodanine (5-224, ICz-Rd2) or the RCN (5-225, ICz-RdCN2) end group.
The planarity of the molecules is slightly reduced, whereby the optical band gaps increase and both compounds show lower performances in solar cells with the same donor.472 The efficiency is not improved with the compound 5-233, which has a 2-ethylhexyl chain on the linker and extended INCN end groups (PCEs 3.03% with PBDB-T).423 The electron-donating strength of the thiophene spacer was increased by alkoxy substitution as in compound 5-234 (i-IF-4F).
When compared to its higher analogue 7-309,3075-236 has lowered energy levels, leading also to a lower VOC (0.59 V) and PCE (4.5%) in solar cells with the polymer donor PTB7-Th.307 A variation of this acceptor motif is represented in structure 5-237 (PTTIC) in which the core and the INCN group are linked via a thiophene linker, leading to a slightly lower optical band gap of 1.53 eV.
Upshifted energy levels lead to a higher VOC (0.93 V) and a PCE of 7.35% in solar cells with PBDB-T as a donor.475 The combination with a hexyloxythiophene π-spacer and INCN-2F groups leads to structure 5-238 (Ph-DTDPi-OT) with an even lower optical band gap of 1.51 eV.
Thus, solar cells with PBDB-T have a good VOC of 0.97 V, but due to reduced JSC, the PCE is smaller (5.06%).475 Changing the oxygen and carbon positions in the central core leads to the isomeric 5,11-dihydrothieno[2′,3′:5,6]pyrano[3,4-g]thieno[3,2-c]isochromene donor unit, used for building the acceptors 5-240–5-247.
The acceptor molecule 5-240 (i-PTIC) is the isomeric compound to 5-235, but in solar cells, 5-240 has a lower PCE (5.80% vs 7.66%), which is only slightly improved if INCN-2F end groups are used (compound 5-241, PCE 5.86% with PBDB-T).477 Blends of 5-241 with PTB7-Th yield a similar PCE (5.58%).479 The introduction of a thiophene-based π-spacer between the core and INCN-2F groups has a positive influence on the photovoltaic performance.
Structure 5-242 with ethylhexylthiophene spacers has a reduced optical band gap of 1.43 eV, and solar cells with PBDB-T reached the best PCE of this compound class with a value of 12.2%.478 The change to ethylhexyloxythiophene, i.e., the introduction of an additional oxygen, leads to the acceptor structure 5-246 (Ph-DTDPo-OTE) with a slightly larger band gap of 1.46 eV, thus giving slightly higher VOC values in solar cells with the same donor.
The hexacyclic fused-ring electron acceptors reported since 2018 can be assigned to four main groups based on the structural features they are containing.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with six fused rings.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
used non-fluorinated INCN units and solubilizing para-alkoxy-phenyl side chains leading to structure 6-3 (O-NTIC),482 which has a slightly increased band gap compared to the phenylhexyl-substituted analogue IHIC1.502 By combining this donor unit with INCN-2F (6-4, NT-4F) and INCN-2Cl (6-5, NT-4Cl) end groups, NFAs with lower optical band gaps and downshifted energy levels are obtained.
Exchanging the bridging atom in the donor unit of 6-2 from carbon to nitrogen leads to 6-7 (TITI-4F).
This acceptor, in combination with PM6, reached PCEs up to 10.9%.483
A further structural modification similar to the IDT unit was implemented by exchanging the central benzene ring with a thienothiophene moiety to give the donor unit T-Cp-T-T-Cp-T.503 Using CPTCN-Me end groups gives 6-8 (T6Me).292 The extension of the backbone conjugation compared to IDT-based NFAs such as, e.g., 5-73 causes, as expected, also a red-shift of the absorption with an optical band gap of 1.38 eV and an absorption maximum in thin film of 820 nm.
The second group of recently investigated six-fused-ring NFAs (6-16–6-24) contains the asymmetric moiety thieno[1,2-b]indaceno[5,6-b′]thienothiophene (TITT) as a donor unit (T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T).
Asymmetric structures have the advantage of bearing higher dipole moments, which facilitates (i) intramolecular charge transfer in the A–D–A structure leading to a higher charge carrier mobility as well as (ii) the self-assembly of the molecules involving enhanced lamellar packing and π–π stacking.488,489,505−507 Moreover, a broader absorption range and an increased LUMO energy level are expected.299 A series of such molecules with different INCN acceptor units (INCN-F, 6-16 (TPTT-2F);299 INCN, 6-17 (A201488/ITIC-3T);329 monomethylated INCN, 6-18 (IDT6CN-M);378,489 INCN-2F, 6-19 (T-TT-4F);490,508 INCN-2Cl, 6-20 (T-TT-4Cl)490) are reported.
Using different donor polymers, solar cells yielded relatively similar PCEs around 9–11%.
These structures are also closely related to the seven-ring ITIC with the only difference that one of the two thienothiophene groups in the fused ITIC backbone is replaced by a thiophene unit, making the acceptor asymmetric and shorter.
The shorter structure is discussed to possess advantages in forming beneficial morphologies in combination with certain weakly aggregated conjugated polymers, which could also be proved by an increased PCE.329 As a further variation of this structure, the terminal INCN was substituted by a CPTCN unit, resulting in 6-21 (IDT6CN), and an additional substitution of the hexylphenyl residue with thienyl side chains (5-hexylthiophen-2-yl) can facilitate the π–π stacking of the side chains in 6-22 (IDT6CN-Th).378,491 Using PBDB-T as a donor polymer, solar cells of 6-21 and 6-22 exhibit lower VOC values and thus lower PCEs (9.27 and 10.4%) than those of 6-18 (11.2%) with the same donor polymer.
Replacing the singular thiophene unit in the donor core of 6-16 with a selenophene unit leads to 6-25 (SePTT-2F).300 Compared to the sulfur analogue 6-16,299 the optical band gap is reduced from 1.58 to 1.50 eV.
In combination with the donor polymer PBT1-C, the PCE is improved from 10.2 to 10.9%.
6-26 (TTPT-T-2F) is a further modification of 6-16 by introducing a thiophene as the π-spacer.413 Solar cells of 6-26 with the donor polymer PBT1-C showed a balanced charge mobility and higher PCEs of 12.7%413 compared to those of 6-16 with the same donor (cf.
The asymmetric NFA 6-32 (CC10)460 comprises a donor core in a T-T-Cp-T-B-T motif.
Compared to the symmetric five-ring structure T-T-Cp-T-T (5-205), this asymmetric acceptor leads to better π–π stacking, enhanced electron mobility and morphology, and also less trap assisted recombination.
The donor units of structures 6-33–6-36 replace the two cyclopentadiene units with N-alkylated pyrroles, leading to the symmetric motif T-P-T-T-P-T.497 The aromatic pyrrole ring can thereby enhance the conjugation and has a higher electron-donating character, leading to increased energy levels.
The combination with INCN and INCN-2F acceptor units leads to the structures 6-33 (SN61C) and 6-34 (SN61C-4F), both introduced by Huang et al.,497 and with INCN-2Cl to 6-35 (PTTtID-Cl), published by Wang et al.4986-33 and 6-34 were evaluated in solar cells with the donor PBDB-T.
However, the solar cell performance cannot be fully compared, as 6-35 was tested (i) in combination with PTB7-Th, whereby a PCE of 8.5% was obtained, and (ii) in a ternary solar cell architecture in combination with the donor PM7 and IT-4F (7-2) as a second acceptor, resulting in a PCE of 12.0%.
compared NFA 6-13, consisting of the donor unit T-Cp-T-T-Cp-T and INCN-2F units, with structure 6-39 (P6IC) where the two outermost thiophenes of the donor unit are replaced by N-alkylated pyrroles.501 Solar cells of the pyrrole compounds in combination with PTB7-Th reach PCE values up to 12.2% compared to only moderate 7.00% for 6-13.
A common design for the class of octocyclic acceptors is based on annulating three thieno[2,3-b]thiophene units via cyclopentadiene rings to the motif T-T-Cp-T-T-Cp-T-T and different acceptor end groups (see Figure 19, structures 8-1–8-6).
investigated the influence of chlorination using INCN, INCN-Cl, and INCN-2Cl acceptor units, which led to NFAs 8-1 (IXIC), 8-2 (IXIC-2Cl), and 8-3 (IXIC-4Cl), respectively.509
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with eight fused rings.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
obtained a PCE of 13.5% with solar cells based on the small molecular donor ZnP-TSEH and 8-1.510 The combination of 8-3 with PM7, which has a lower HOMO level compared to PBDB-T, led to an increase of the VOC from 0.69 V up to 0.80 V, which is also reflected in a higher PCE of 12.0%.511
While in a bulk heterojunction absorber layer in combination with PTB7-Th as a donor the PCE is slightly decreased compared to the 8-4-based solar cells (11.0%), efficiencies of 12.0% were obtained by a sequentially deposited heterojunction.513 Changing the linear hexyl chains in 8-6 to branched ethylhexyl side chains results in 8-7 (3TT-FIC) and leaves the optical and photovoltaic properties almost unchanged; only the FF is increased, leading to a higher PCE of 12.2%.514
Structural variations of compound 8-3 bearing INCN-2Cl end groups were introduced by Gao et al.515 by replacing hexyl side chains with ethylhexyl chains, leading to structure 8-8 (3TT-CIC), or keeping the hexyl chains and introducing additional octyl side chains at the terminal thiophene units of the donor core, resulting in 8-9 (3TT-OCIC).
Although the absorption range is slightly broader, solar cells of 8-11 reached significantly lower JSC values due to the unfavorable energy level alignment of the donor and the acceptor material in the absorber layer.292
The electron-donating ability of the donor core is comparatively low, which reduces intramolecular charge transfer, resulting in a larger optical band gap with significantly higher values between 1.61 and 1.71 eV than the NFAs 8-1–8-12, discussed before with values around 1.3 eV.
Solar cells of 8-13 (DBTIC, INCN end groups) with the donor J52 reached a maximum PCE of 8.64%.516 Using INCN-2F, the influence of different structural isomers was investigated on the structures 8-14–8-16, with the same sequentially fused-ring cores but with different annulation of the terminal cyclopentathiophenes to the BTTB, as shown in Figure 19.5178-14 (Z1-aa) has [2,3:b] and [6,7:b] annulation and thus a linear structure, 8-15 (Z1-ab) comprises a [1,2:b] and [6,7:b] annulation leading to a kink, whereas 8-16 (Z1-bb) has a double-kink due to a [1,2:b] and [5,6:b] annulation.
Solar cells based on 8-16 and PM6 as a donor reveal clearly the highest photovoltaic performance (12.7%, see also Table 16) compared to 9.60 and 4.56% for solar cells with 8-15 and 8-14, respectively.
introduced the centrosymmetric acceptor 8-17 (FTTBT) with a T-B-Cp-T-T-Cp-B-T motif, which is very similar to the heptacyclic structure 7-327.315 Thereby, the central thiophene unit in 7-327 was replaced by a thienothiophene unit.
investigated asymmetric NFAs combining a dithienothiophene unit and a thienothiophene via a s-indacene unit leading to the octocyclic motif T-T-T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T.518 They focused on the influence of the fluorination degree of the INCN end groups comparing INCN (8-18, TTPTTT-IC), INCN-F (8-19, TTPTTT-2F), and INCN-2F (8-20, TTPTTT-4F) acceptor units.
Solar cells of these acceptors with PTB1-C show—despite a decrease in VOC—an overall increase of the PCE with increasing fluorinination degree caused by higher JSC and FF.
Solar cells using PM7 as a donor revealed higher PCEs with the S-shape (15.2%) compared to 13.8% obtained with 8-22.
A good photovoltaic performance was obtained in solar cells using 8-25 (a-BTTIC) combined with PBDB-T, yielding a PCE of 13.6%.519 This asymmetric compound is based on the symmetric structure 7-251 to which one thiophene ring is added, shows a T-Cp-T-B-T-Cp-T-T motif, and bears CPTCN-Me acceptor units.
8-26 reveals an optical band gap of 1.55 eV and an elevated LUMO level (−3.88 eV) which leads to a high VOC (0.99 V) in solar cells with PM6 as a donor.
The acceptors 8-37–8-39 contain a fused di(thienocyclopenta)indenoindene (ZIT) core (with the T-Cp-B-Cp-Cp-B-Cp-T motif) and two INCN-F (8-37, ZITI), one INCN-F, and one INCN-2F on each side (8-38, ZITI-3F) and two INCN-2F units (8-39, ZITI-4F) as termini.524,525 These materials reveal an optical band gap of ∼1.5 eV, whereby it is slightly lowered by the fluorination.
synthesized 8-38 and 8-39 in a one-pot synthesis, which yielded a molar ratio of 1:1.525 After separation of these compounds and preparation of solar cells in combination with the donor J71, very similar PCEs of 13.15 and 13.18% were obtained, which is also similar to the PCE of J71/8-37-based solar cells.524 When the mixture of 8-38 and 8-39 (ZITI-m), as yielded in the synthesis, is directly used for the device preparation, the obtained ternary solar cells revealed an improved PCE of 13.7% which was attributed to synergy effects in the ternary blend, e.g., a broader absorption range and a more balanced charge carrier transport.525 In the compounds 8-40–8-42, the outer Cp units in the ZIT core are replaced by pyrrole units bearing different alkyl chains (8-40, ZITI-N-CH3, methyl; 8-41, ZITI-N-C8, n-octyl; 8-42, ZITI-N-EH, ethylhexyl).
In combination with PTB7-Th, PCEs up to 12.9% are obtained.527 This acceptor was also used compared to its smaller sized central core analogues (five to seven fused rings).
Obviously, changes in the conjugation length have an impact on the optical band gap and energy levels of these acceptors; however, also significant changes in phase morphology are observed.307
Furthermore, fused octocyclic acceptors (8-44, CRIC, and 8-45, CRIC-4F) based on a chrysene core are reported by Zhao et al.
The molecules 8-46 (Py-1) and 8-47 (Py-2) bear a dithienocyclopentapyrene core and INCN-2F acceptor groups, whereby 8-46 is the centrosymmetric and 8-47 the axisymmetric isomer.529 While the optical band gap (8-46, 1.95 eV; 8-47, 1.97 eV) and the energy levels show no significant difference, the centrosymmetric isomer shows a significantly higher electron mobility in the blend with PTB7-Th, which also results in an increased PCE of 5.75% (compared to 3.47% for a PTB7-Th/8-47-based solar cell).529
9-1 (BTTFIC) contains a bis(thieno[3,2-b]thieno)cyclopentafluorene donor core and INCN units as end groups and has an optical band gap of 1.58 eV and HOMO and LUMO energy levels of −5.56 and −3.95 eV.532 The carbazole-based analogue 9-5 (CZTT-IC) reveals rather similar optical properties, energy levels, and photovoltaic performance.533 In combination with PBDB-T, PCEs of 9.00% were obtained for the 9-1-based photovoltaic devices, while, for solar cells with PBDB-T/9-5, 9.87% are reached.
To that end, compound 9-2 (4TFIC-4F, BTTFIC4F-Ar) reaches a PCE above 11%, but its carbazole-based analogue 9-7 (4TCIC-4F) even 13.0%.535,536 Albeit, here a different donor polymer (PM7) was used than for compound 9-1.
Fluorination of the end group results in a lower band gap and downshifted energy levels, as can be seen if acceptor 9-6 (CZTT-4F) is compared to its non-fluorinated analogue 9-5.
This has a large influence on the PV performance in blends with the donor PBTIBDTT.
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with nine fused rings.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
The NFAs 9-12 (INPIC) and 9-13 (INPIC-4F) are based on a donor core with two dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]pyrrole units annulated via a S-indacene unit (structural motif: T-P-T-Cp-B-Cp-T-P-T) and INCN as well as INCN-2F end groups, respectively.539 As expected, the fluorinated analogue has a narrower band gap of 1.39 eV, downshifted energy levels (−3.94 eV compared to −3.82 eV), a higher crystallinity, as well as a higher electron mobility.
Using dithienothiophene units instead of dithienopyrroles leads to a T-T-T-Cp-B-Cp-T-T-T motif.101 In a study by Zhao et al., the influence of increasing alkyl chain lengths was systematically investigated for pentyl (9-17, 2F-C5), hexyl (9-18, 2F-C6), octyl (9-19, 2F-C8), and decyl side chains (9-20, 2F-C10), as shown in Figure 20.541 Longer side chains increased the miscibility of the acceptor with the used polymer PBDB-T, which led to smaller domain sizes and lower domain purity.
Therefore, solar cells with the donor PBD-SF yield a moderate PCE of 5.1%.
Solar cells with the same donor and the difluorinated acceptor 9-22 (FINIC) exhibit a significantly increased PCE (14.0%).
In comparison to devices of the structurally similar 9-18 with the PBDB-T donor, the largest improvement has been reached in VOC despite 9-22 having a lower LUMO level than 9-18.542
Exchanging the pyrrole ring in 9-13 with a cyclopentadiene ring leads to the conjugated structure of 9-23 (BCPT-4F).5439-23 showed a low band gap of 1.32 eV, and solar cells based on this acceptor and PBDB-T gave PCE values of 12.4%.
The influence of alkyl chain lengths was investigated in NFAs with a benzodithiophene-based central core, flanked by two cyclopentathienothiophene units (T-T-Cp-T-B-T-Cp-T-T) and INCN-F acceptor units (9-25–9-29).545 Alkyl chains were introduced on the central core (in-plane) and on the phenyl side chains (out-of-plane).
Solar cells with the FTAZ donor achieved the best PCE values (10.8%) using 9-28 (NNFA[12,3]), which bears dodecyl chains in-plane and propyl side chains out-of-plane.
In the acceptors 9-38 (IN-4F) and 9-39 (ISI-4F), a silyl-based side chain is introduced via thiophene (9-38) or triple bond (9-39) spacers.
A further nonacyclic structure is based on indenofluorene flanked by cyclopenta[b]thiophene units (T-Cp-B-Cp-B-Cp-B-Cp-T) at both sides and either INCN-2F or INCN-2Cl acceptor groups, as realized in 9-43 (TfIF-4F) and 9-44 (TfIF-4Cl).551 The chlorinated NFA shows a lower band gap, deeper energy levels, and better molecular packing.
The dithienopyrane moieties containing acceptor 9-47 (ITOT-4Cl) have a low optical band gap (1.28 eV) and a good electron mobility in blend with PBDB-T. Due to its low LUMO energy, solar cells are not reaching high VOC values (0.78 V), but the low band gap and good electron mobility contribute to a high JSC (22.9 mA cm–2) and thus decent PCEs (12.5%).553 Acceptor 9-48 (IDTODT-1) also is comprised of a dithienopyrane moiety, but the oxygen atoms are located in the outer direction, i.e., closer to the periphery of the central core.
The morphology of the blend can be improved by side chain modifications; thus, both 9-49 (IDTODT-2) and 9-50 (DITODT-3) have an improved electron mobility and a higher PCE (6.99 and 8.34%, respectively).554 The acceptor 9-51 (DTPR-4Cl) has INCN-2Cl end groups and in comparison to 9-47 different side chains, leading to a slightly higher LUMO and a larger optical band gap.
Similar to the Y-series, the A–(DA′D)–A approach was introduced in nonacyclic NFAs, as realized in structures 9-52–9-55 by the insertion of additional benzene rings replacing the thienothiophenes with benzodithiophene units.555 These structures comprise different acceptor termini, 9-52 (X94FIC) INCN-2F (analogue to Y6, 7-145), 9-53 (X9IC) INCN (analogue to Y5, 7-142), and 9-54 (X9Rd) an RCN end group (analogue to TPBT-RCN, 7-200).
Structures of non-fullerene acceptors with 10–13 fused rings.
Determined via the SCLC technique from the neat acceptor/donor:acceptor blend films if not otherwise stated.
The star shaped acceptors 10-4 (FBTIC) in solar cells with PM6 reach a good VOC (0.95 V) and fill factor (75%).
Nevertheless, a PCE of 10.1% is reached.559 The spectral response is improved if a thiophene linker is incorporated between the central core and the end groups as in acceptor 10-5 (B3T-TT-6F).
However, devices of 10-5 with PBDB-T have a lower electron mobility and thus lower JSC values (18.3 mA cm–2), resulting in lower PCEs (9.94%).560 A similar problem can be observed for the acceptor 10-6 (FPIC), which reaches 8.45% PCE when blended with PTB7-Th.
Since the LUMO energies of both acceptors are the same, also blends with PTB7-Th have the same VOC.
This acceptor has a higher LUMO level; thus, solar cells with PTB7-Th reach higher VOC values than for 11-1 (0.78 V vs 0.69 V), but the PCEs were not improved (10.3%).563
The reported 12-fused-ring systems reveal a similarly replicated IDT structure as the aforementioned 10-fused-ring systems with additional peripheral thiophenes on both sides.565 Acceptor 12-1 (LC81) has INCN-2F end groups,565 whereas NFA 12-2 (R12-4Cl) comprises INCN-2Cl units.558 The chlorinated analogue 12-2 has a narrower optical band gap of 1.35 eV, while the LUMO energy levels of both acceptors are similar.
The 10-fused-ring analogue 10-2 with the donor PBDB-T reached a PCE of 10.7%, serving as an example where an acceptor with a shorter conjugation length performs better than its higher analogue.558
The star shaped acceptor 13-1 (BTTCTT-ICF/B3T-BT-6F) is based on a truxene core and consists of 13 fused rings.
The truxene core is not a strong electron donor; thus, despite the large π-system, this molecule has a rather high optical band gap.
Summarizing the large number of fused-ring molecules reported in the last three years enables the possibility of making more general conclusions about non-fullerene acceptor design.
Some of the design strategies are universal to all of the acceptors discussed in this Review.
However, when choosing the side chains, also the properties of the desired donor material need to be taken into account, i.e., to have appropriate miscibility and phase separation of both materials in the absorber layer blend.
(A) PCEs obtained with the NFAs covered in this Review grouped by the number of fused rings in their donor core (entries of the Y-series are marked in magenta), (B) PCEs obtained with NFAs bearing different commonly used end groups, and (C) conjugated polymers applied in non-fullerene OSCs with PCEs exceeding 11%.
(D) ΔHOMO versus ΔLUMO levels of donor and acceptor; the data of representative donor:acceptor combinations from each core size revealing PCEs above 11% are shown.
(E) Eloss versus ΔLUMO levels and (F) Eloss versus ΔHOMO levels of donor and acceptor.
However, the length of the fused-ring core also significantly influences the solubility of the compounds and the phase morphology of the donor and the acceptor.
Moreover, often the preparation of these larger conjugated fused-ring systems is synthetically more demanding compared to smaller ones and the synthesis routes of many five- and seven-fused-ring acceptors are well established, with many building blocks being commercially available.
As, in addition, the majority of the reported seven-ring systems combined with a suitable donor polymer can reach PCEs above 10% (65% of the seven-ring compounds in this Review) and the current record efficiencies are obtained with NFAs of this core size, it comes as no surprise that in the last years seven-fused-ring systems have been studied and applied in solar cells very frequently.
The herein discussed acceptor systems usually comprise an A–D–A-type structure.
Regarding Y6, one of the currently most efficient NFAs, major reasons for the low energy losses in solar cells comprising the Y6 acceptor have been found to be the conformational rigidity and uniformity.
In almost all highly efficient solar cells, which reveal PCE values above 11% (see Figure 22B), the used acceptors comprise INCN-based accepting groups, especially halogenated INCN units.
Alternatively, acceptors with the thiophene analogue, the CPTCN motif, are much less investigated but also give promising solar cell efficiencies up to 15%.
Although not being the focus of this Review, the donor materials, in most cases a conjugated polymer, are of the same importance and a large number of materials have been introduced during the last years.
Figure 22C shows all donor materials used in solar cells with PCEs >11%.
Within this category, PBDB-T-type polymers (such as PBDB-T, PM6, and PM7) are the most often used donor materials.
Out of about 350 reported non-fullerene acceptors leading to solar cell efficiencies above 11%, approximately 280 contained a PBDB-T-type polymer in the absorber layer.
A higher PCE (18.2%) could only be otained with the recently designed donor material D18.
Furthermore, it should be mentioned that PTQ10 is a very promising donor, especially due to its simple structure (synthetic considerations) and solar cells have revealed already very good performance.
As discussed above, it is generally accepted that both the LUMO and HOMO energies of the acceptor should be bigger than those of the donor to facilitate exciton separation.
Generally, a value of 0.3 eV was postulated and this empirical driving energy has been regularly questioned for non-fullerene solar cells.570 Thus, we have extracted the LUMO–LUMO and HOMO–HOMO offsets of various NFA-conjugated polymer combinations from each of the fused-ring core sizes discussed in this Review (PCE values above 10%, representative examples from each chapter, the HOMO and LUMO values of both the donor and the acceptor have been taken from the respective articles) and have compared these data in regard to the power conversion efficiency and the energy loss (band gap of the solar cell - VOC).
Figure 22D correlates the donor/acceptor HOMO and LUMO offsets of these highly efficient solar cells.
It can be seen from Figure 23A that only absorber layer blends with band gaps below 1.7 eV yield solar cells with efficiencies above 12% and particularly high JSCs (>25 mA cm–2) have been obtained for active layers made of acceptors with band gaps around 1.45 eV.
These differences to the SQ limits in VOC and JSC are currently larger than in other PV technologies such as GaAs and Si but also perovskite solar cells.3 This might be caused by the intrinsic donor–acceptor heterojunction of OPVs with expected higher VOC and recombination losses compared to other technologies.
In particular, some issues have to be addressed in the acceptor molecule design and synthesis, such as the research toward simple, large scale, and high yield synthesis methods for the most efficient non-fullerene acceptor molecules.
Finally, a facile and reproducible processability and also the use of green solvents in the coating processes are crucial aspects to be taken into account in future research on non-fullerene acceptors.
Herein, two heavy‐atom‐free room‐temperature phosphorescent (RTP) electron acceptors with inherent long lifetime triplet exctions are first reported.
These two 3D‐fully conjugated rigid perylene imide (PDI) multimers, as the best nonfullerene wide‐bandgap electron acceptors, exhibit a significantly elevated T1 of ≈2.1 eV with a room‐temperature phosphorescent emission (τ = 66 µs) and a minimized singlet–triplet splitting as low as ≈0.13 eV.
Meanwhile, the highly delocalized feature enables the triplet charge‐transfer excitons at donor–acceptor interface effectively dissociate into free charges, endowing the RTP electron acceptor based organic solar cells (OSCs) with a high internal quantum efficiency of 84% and excellent charge collection capability of 94%.
Here, two room‐temperature phosphorescent electron acceptors with long‐lived triplet exctions and high‐energy level are investigated systematically for the first time.
observed an ISC efficiency (Φ ISC) up to 86% via attaching a strong electron donor into the bay‐position of PDI skeleton, with a fast ISC with ≈80 ps;[  18  ] furthermore, the fused PDI dimer 4 displayed Φ ISC = 94% and triplet state quantum yield (Φ T) up to 94% and an ΔE ST of ≈0.9 eV.
To date, the great development of synthetic chemistry for rylene core, has provided vast space for progress in PDI molecular evolution, endowing PDI derivatives to be the best wide‐bandgap nonfullerene electron acceptors.
Whereas, for OSCs, if the inherent triplet state displays a low‐lying energy than that of charge‐transfer excitons (CTE) at donor–acceptor (D–A) interface, namely E T1 < E CTE, these triplet excitons generated via ISC from S1 state, will suffer from serious quenching without diffusing into the interfacial CTE and thus leading to serious geminate recombination.
[  20  ] Furthermore, current relative investigation are mainly focused on the relationships between chemical structure and molecular orbital energy level, charge transfer mobility, as well as the phase separation morphology between electron donors.
In this study, two high‐triplet‐energy rigid propeller‐like PDI electron acceptors with a prominent RTP luminescent behavior were first reported.
We systematically investigate the impact of 3D fully‐conjugated twisted rigid molecular geometry on the excited state electron characteristics as well as on the photovoltaic performance, via adopting “three‐bladed propeller” TPH[  21  ] and “four‐bladed propeller” PPD[  22  ] molecules as electron acceptor and P3TEA as polymer donor.
The wavefunction delocalization feature for the interfacial3CTE at donor–acceptor interface, guarantees their efficient dissociation into free charges, kinetically outcompeting relaxation to the low‐lying triplet exciton formation in narrow‐bandgap P3TEA; and therefore, a high IQE and excellent PCE were observed.
Now we have identified the fast generation mechanism of triplet excitons in TPH and PPD, the key objective of this work is to determine the position of triplet states of these two electron acceptors via phosphorescence measurement directly and unambiguously using a spectrometer equipped with a liquid‐nitrogen‐cooled Dewars, which is of significance for OSCs.
a,b) Emission spectra (λ exc = 350 nm) of mCP‐sensitized TPH and PPD (mCP:acceptor = 4:1, wt/wt) in TEA/DCM solution (TEA:DCM = 5:1, v/v) at room temperature and at 77 K; c,d) Kinetic curves of mCP‐sensitized TPH and PPD in TEA/DCM solution under the excitation of a microsecond lamp (λ exc = 350 nm) at 77K; e,f) Nanosecond transient absorption spectroscopy of TPH and PPD in TEA/DCM with or without oxygen at 298 K.
First, solar cells with the conventional ITO/PEDOT:PSS/active layer/PFN‐Br/Al architecture were prepared by employing P3TEA[  32  ] with the E S1 of 1.74 eV, as the donor material.
It was notable that, as shown in Figure 4f, the cells based on TPH or PPD exhibited negative MPC effects, when utilizing a Laser of 405 nm wavelength with 100 mW cm−2 illumination intensity to photoexcite the electron acceptors.
But from a practical point of view, this Dexter energy transfer is only occurs at the significant overlap of molecular orbitals, meaning the distance between donor and acceptor are within 1 nm, merely at D‐A interfaces.
That is, although the large spectral overlap between the emission spectrum of PDI‐based electron acceptor and the absorption spectrum of narrow‐bandgap donor, the electron transfer between TPH/PPD and P3TEA also outcompetes to energy transfer process, which is also proved by Singh et al.
a) Exciton diffusion and separation process; b) Charge distribution in the3CT state configuration; c) Förster energy transfer between singlet excitons; d) Dexter energy transfer between triplet excitons; e) Electron transfer from an excited donor (D*) to a neutral acceptor; f) Jablonski state diagrams of electronic transitions for PDI‐based solar cells; g) Jablonski state diagrams of electronic transitions for TPH‐, PPD‐based solar cells.
As shown in Figure 5b, the wavefunction of the lowest 3CT states in these three blend films, are delocalized nearly completely between P3TEA and acceptors.
Of these, the number on the left and right sides are the percentage of transition orbital contributed from the donor, and from the acceptor, respectively.
This demonstrated that the well‐ordered acceptor molecules with encouraging wavefunction delocalization, benefit for a faster 3CTE dissociation into free charges, than relaxation to low‐lying T1 state.
In conclusion, two room‐temperature phosphorescent PDI‐based electron acceptors with significantly elevated triplet state to ≈2.10 eV, from 1.2 eV for parent PDI monomer, was first reported.
Notably, state-of-the-art OPVs reach 18% PCE in laboratory devices.11 The Harvard Clean Energy Project (CEP) was initiated to find photoactive organic materials with high efficiencies.12 Starting from 26 building blocks, selected based on expert knowledge to maximize performance and synthesizability,13 107 potential donors were generated.
Subsequently, electronic structure calculations were performed, and PCEs were estimated using the Scharber model with a fullerene as acceptor.14 That way, about 1000 candidates with estimated PCEs of 11% and higher were identified.
Additionally, statistical analysis of the top-performing molecules revealed design principles for photoactive donors identifying building blocks more likely to exhibit high performance.
Notably, the screening efforts led to the experimental characterization of an organic crystal with one of the highest reported hole mobilities reported at the time.15 Subsequently, extending the CEP to nonfullerene acceptors, over 51 000 candidates were generated based on 107 expertly chosen fragments.16 More sophisticated property calibration with Gaussian processes and a modified Scharber model improved PCE predictions with a well-studied electron donor.
Moreover, statistical analysis of the candidate structures was performed with respect to both Morgan fingerprints and the building blocks, establishing a general architecture for nonfullerene acceptors.
One of the first large scale campaigns our group embarked on was the CEP, where we implemented supervised learning together with HTVS using quantum chemistry simulations to investigate 107 potential donor molecules for organic solar cells and devised design principles by statistical analysis of structure–function relationships.12 In the subsequent years, we refined these ML strategies and expanded our efforts toward other important materials such as OLEDs, OFRBs, multivalent CIBs, and RFs.
Ordinarily, the formation of the photocurrent is mainly attributed to the diffusion of the photogenerated electrons to the back contact and simultaneously the photoinduced holes are taken up by the hole acceptor in the electrolyte.
We develop an all-atom force field for a series of diketopyrrolopyrrole polymers with two aromatic pyridine substituents and a variable number of π-conjugated thiophene units in the backbone (DPP2PymT), used as donor materials in organic photovoltaic devices.
In contrast, devices made from less expensive polycrystalline or amorphous silicon wafers show a reduction of the PCE to around 10–14%.7,8 Instead of using inorganic materials, the use of organic molecules (either polymers or small molecules) in photovoltaic devices is attractive because of their ease of processing from solutions, higher flexibility due to a low bulk modulus, and the nontoxicity of the compounds used.9,10 Low dielectric screening and substantial disorder in the materials generally lead to strongly bound, localized electronic excitations, hampering the efficient generation of free charge carriers and their transport processes in donor–acceptor heterojunctions.
To overcome these factors limiting the PCE of organic photovoltaic devices, significant effort is directed toward tuning electronic and structural properties of the materials by altering the architecture of donor and acceptor compounds.9,11,12
Among the intensively studied donor materials are polymers based on diketopyrrolopyrroles (DPPs),4,13−15 see the monomer unit in Figure 1.
With suitably chosen substituents, a low-band-gap internal donor–acceptor architecture leads to efficient harvesting of the solar energy spectrum and a PCE of around 8% in blends with fullerene acceptors.16−19
The resulting morphologies must not only reliably reflect the overall conformational details of the polymer chains in the bulk and at the interface to the acceptor but also accurately capture the dynamics of torsional degrees of freedom between the segments in the individual chains as these can massively influence the localization characteristics of electronic states and, hence, their dynamics.26−28 This, in turn, requires the availability of precise classical force fields (FFs) which are parameterized for the specific chemical composition of the materials at hand.
In this work, we focus on a particular series of DPP polymers, as shown in Figure 1, with two aromatic pyridine (Py) substituents and a variable number of π-conjugated thiophene (T) units in the backbone (DPP2PymT).29 The compounds are specifically chosen because when used in conjugation with PCBM[60] and PCBM[70] acceptors, a difference in the charge generation is observed depending on donor or acceptor excitation.29 With the end goal to study this dichotomous role of donor or acceptor excitation, we begin performing classical simulations to study structural and segmental properties of the polymer itself.
Charge-transfer complexes can also be used for ambipolar transport, and recently, donor (silylethynylated pentacene)–acceptor (silylethynylated tetraazapentacene) organic blending semiconductors with a novel form of solid solution were proposed with mobilities of 0.02 and 0.05 cm2 V–1 s–1 for hole and electrons, respectively.23 Better results, mobility exceeding 1 cm2 V–1 s–1, are obtained with conjugated polymers and copolymers.24,25 In the field of bilayer-based transistors, Chang et al.26 demonstrated well-balanced carrier mobility values of 1 cm2 V–1 s–1 in an oxygen-free atmosphere by utilizing ω-diperfluorohexylquaterthiophene (DFH-4T) and dinaphtho[2,3-b:2′,3′-f]thieno[3,2-b]thiophene (DNTT) as n- and p-type components, respectively.
This observation, related to the insertion of a thin PDIF-CN2 layer between picene film and the gold electrodes, confirms the relevance of the detailed chemical and structural nature of the injecting contacts for device performance optimization.51 Moreover, this effect is qualitatively similar to what observed in previous experiments when a thin layer of the fluorinate small molecule 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-7,7,8,8-tetracyanoquinodimethane (F4-TCNQ) was utilized in the same position for an equivalent picene thin-film transistor.52 So the observed Vth shift in the picene transfer curves should be related to a hole doping effect induced by the strong electron-acceptor character of the PDIF-CN2 compound, as recently found also for other p-type compounds when combined even with fluorinated self-assembled monolayers.53 Inspired by the aforementioned results, a triple-layer heterostructure was fabricated by sequential deposition of 15 nm of PDIF-CN2 (grown at Tsub = 110 °C) as bottom layer, 60 nm of picene as middle layer, and 5 nm of room-temperature-grown PDIF-CN2 as top layer.
We also found that room-temperature-grown PDIF-CN2 layers (a few nanometers) can be inserted between picene channels and the gold electrodes, preserving the high mobility values but remarkably reducing (in absolute value) the threshold voltages of the p-type response related to the hole doping effect induced by the strong electron-acceptor character of the PDIF-CN2.
In this reported study, we show that a solution-processed antimony-doped tin oxide (ATO)/polyethylenimine (PEI) electron-selective contact incorporated on the top of non-embedded AgNWs provides a high-performance ITO-free bottom electrode for non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) inverted OPVs.
Encouraging progress on the development of small-molecule non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) during the past years has boosted the power conversion efficiency (PCE) to 19% of the solution-processed bulk heterojunction organic photovoltaics (OPVs).1−3 The high performance of the non-fullerene acceptor OPVs is of great significance for industrial applications and introduces new commercialization opportunities for OPVs.
After having optimized the AgNW deposition process (described in Section 2.1), a highly efficient non-fullerene acceptor-based PM6:Y6 active layer was introduced in our study.
In this computational work, with the aim of boosting the ultimate efficiency of organic photovoltaic cells, seven small acceptors (IDST1–IDST7) were proposed by altering the terminal-acceptors of reference molecule IDSTR.
By coupling with the PTB7-Th donor, the open circuit voltage (VOC) of the investigated acceptor molecules (IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7) was calculated and investigation revealed that IDST4–IDST6 molecules showed higher VOC and fill factor (FF) values than IDSTR molecules.
Accordingly, the modified molecules can be seriously evaluated for actual use in the fabrication of OSCs with enhanced photovoltaic and optoelectronic characteristics in light of the findings of this study.In this work, with the aim of boosting the ultimate efficiency of organic solar cells, seven small acceptor molecules (IDST1–IDST7) were proposed by altering the terminal-acceptor of reference molecule IDSTR.
The donor–acceptor mix in the photo-active layer influences the device performance of OSCs that are bulk heterojunction (BHJ) types.3,4 Fullerene acceptors (FAs) encounter a few significant issues that hinder the device's performance from improving any further: problems with chemical alteration, limited energy level tenability,5 structural instability as well as non-significant UV-visible and near-infrared (NIR) absorption.6,7 Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) offer a greater capacity to address these issues than FAs.1,8,9 With comprehensive spectrum coverage, great synthesizing adaptability, minimal voltage loss, and adjustable optoelectronic aspects, NFAs were able to achieve power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 17%.10–14
In order to get a more comprehensive understanding of designing proficient OSCs, a thorough structural modification of small molecule acceptors (SMAs) is still greatly sought.
Several investigations have shown that decreasing the bandgap (Egap) may be achieved by enhancing the electron donating capacity of the donor component by expanding the efficient conjugate part.15 One simple way to accomplish this objective is to extend the core by increasing the fused-rings to extend conjugation in the core that is the donor part of molecule.16,17 However, this method didn't extend the spectrum of absorbance as anticipated, and flaws were found, including low solubility and time-consuming synthesis and purifying stages.18 On the other hand, these issues may be avoided by including heteroatom-based π-bridges into the conjugate system in order to lengthen it through non-covalent forces present within a molecule.19–21
Polymeric donor and NFAs photovoltaic compounds have benefited from the promising consideration of the asymmetric technique.22–24 Consequently, several studies have been reported that include the addition of π-bridges in the molecules in an asymmetric way.25,26 Recent research introduced a single bridge of alkythio-linked thiophene into an extremely crystalline indaceno dithiophene based small molecule (ID-4F).
High energy levels and a redshift in the absorption spectrum, improved short circuit current (JSC) as well as 14.3% PCE of the resultant acceptor molecule (IDST-4F) were achieved.25
The donor core of IDSTR molecule is consist of 4,4,9,9-tetramethyl-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophene and 3-methylsulfanyl-thiophene bridge is present on one side of the core of molecule making overall an asymmetric geometry of molecule.
In this research, we have regarded both indaceno dithiophene and methylsulfanyl-thiophene units as the donor component of the molecule, as the scientists who designed the bridge that was added to the ID-4F molecule to boost the electron-donating function of the donor core unit.
The donor portion of IDSTR is further attached to the molecules' ends by 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-malononitrile units, forming an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type molecule.
We have proposed seven new acceptor molecules (IDST1–IDST7) by swapping out the ending acceptor component of the IDSTR molecule with seven different acceptor groups.
1-Dicyanomethylene-6-methyl-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester; compound with methanedione (IDST1), 6-cyano-1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester (IDST2), 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile (IDST3), 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (IDST4), 2-(2-bromo-6-methylene-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-1-thia-s-indacen-5-ylidene)-malononitrile (IDST5), 2-(6,7-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (IDST6) and 2-(1-chloro-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile (IDST7) are the new acceptor groups of IDST1–IDST7 molecules respectively as shown in Fig.
ChemDraw structures of IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7 molecules, the red part indicating the donor and black part indicating acceptor site of the molecule.
This indicates that all of the molecules have a planar geometry, as there is no twist in between end-capped acceptor and donor core, and there are also no groups that cause a hindrance.
Strong polarizability, poor kinetic stability, as well as great chemical reactivity are all characteristics of molecules with small Egap.45 Energy levels of HOMO, LUMO for IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7 HOMO as well as their Egap are examined at select functionals to evaluate the influence of various end group acceptors on the photophysical characteristics of the analyzed molecules and their numerical data are shown in Table 3.
In the ground state, the majority of the charge is located on the center region of the molecule, which is the donor section.
However, in the LUMO state, the charge potential shifts to the molecules' acceptor sites, which are located at their peripheral ends.
It has been shown that the methylsulfanyl-thiophene bridge enhances the efficiency of charge transfer from the electron donating core to the electron pulling acceptors at that particular location.
This strategy indicates the sequential charge transfer competencies of donor core to the acceptor part from HOMO to LUMO.
Furthermore, the efficient conjugation that is enabling the effective charge transfer capabilities owing to the planarity of the molecular geometries is shown by the charge transfer from the electron-rich donor portion to the acceptor part of the compound in the excited state.
These IDST3 molecules may be more stable because they have pairs of highly electronegative cyano groups in their peripheral acceptor units that has participated considerably in the charge density dispersal.
The Egap of the IDST3 and IDST2 is the smallest and second-smallest among all other recently proposed molecules, respectively, because of their strong peripheral acceptor site, which has contributed sufficiently to improve molecules' ability to transfer charges and resultantly the bandgap is decreased.
The outcomes reveal that IDST3 has the highest λmax in gas and solvent phases, at 701 nm and 770 nm, respectively, which may be due to the pairs of electronegative cyano group presence in the peripheral acceptor unit.
Consistent with the findings, the LHE of IDST5–IDST7 molecules is significantly affected by the ending acceptor moieties.
The reorganization energy (RE) of IDST1–IDST7 and IDSTR molecules were determined at MPW1PW91 functional to analyze the charge transfer from donor unit acceptor unit.
The main factor for the creation of effective substances for OSCs is the RE, which quantifies the charge that is transported from donor fragment to acceptor portions of a compound and is linked to the electron and hole mobility.58 The RE has an inverse relationship to the charges mobility i.e., electrons and holes.
Since the RE of IDST3 was observed to be the smallest (0.1311 eV) of all the molecules examined, this suggests that the molecule's new peripheral acceptors have had a significant impact on increasing its electron transport.
The drastic drop in the RE of hole for the IDST7 molecule indicates that the terminal acceptor is contributing significantly to the lowering of the RE to promote mobility of hole.
An abundance of electron concentration can be seen over the oxygen as well as nitrogen atoms at the outer acceptor areas of the molecules, which shows up as dark red spots on ESP layouts.
It is essential to carry out DOS analyses to gain a deeper comprehension of the activities of every molecule's units i.e., donor, acceptor.
Each molecule was subdivided into its respective donor and acceptor halves for investigation of the individual unit contribution to the FMOs.
In the DOS plots of IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7, donor and acceptor participation is shown by red and black lines, while overall contribution to FMO growth by the moieties is shown by a green line as seen in Fig.
DOS studies showed that all compounds (IDSTR, IDST1–IDST7) had similar donor and acceptor contributions patterns, with the donor fragment being more significant in HOMO and the acceptor portions being more significant in LUMO.
This clearly demonstrates the flow of charge from donor unit to acceptor units of molecule efficiently by consecutive conjugation which may increase the OSCs' ultimate efficiency.
The data show that the HOMO is dominated by the donor central part of the molecule that is rich with electrons, whereas the charge is flowing from the donor central region to the electron-withdrawing terminal units of molecules in LUMO pointing to the molecules' planar geometry, which allow for such efficient charge transfer.
Participation of donor and acceptor units in FMOs of studied molecules
TDM analysis is mandatory to provide an accurate forecast of exciton movement between donor and acceptor zones at specific places in conjugated molecular geometry.63 This approach has the potential to investigate a number of different types of charge phenomena, including prediction of charge transmission, primary charge sites, and positioning of exciton movement during absorption and emission in the excited state.64 TDM plots are usually generated to analyze electronic characteristics, such as the resonance effects and the degree of delocalization, and to get insight into the charge mobility inside a molecule.
8, the electronic potential is existing in both the regions (acceptor and the donor) of all of the molecules we looked at (IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7).
Consistency in electron density travels from donor to acceptor in a diagonal and off-diagonal pattern, with the diagonal being the more prevalent.
The scheme depicted the smooth transport of electronic potential from the electron rich donor part to the acceptor component of the molecule by sequential conjugation, suggesting effective charge dispersion.
The IC of IDST5 is small which indicate that electrons can easily be transferred from the donor and acceptor sites of this molecule.
all have a significant impact on VOC.69 The maximal voltage is achieved when the donor material's HOMO is associated to the acceptor material's LUMO.
In order to achieve the increased VOC values, the donor molecule must have a lower HOMO, whereas the acceptor molecule must have a greater LUMO level.
In this investigation, we coupled the HOMO of a well-known polymeric donor (PTB7-Th) with the LUMO of the recently proposed non-fullerene acceptors (IDSTR, IDST1–IDST7), to produce the maximum VOC feasible.
PTB7-Th, with its HOMO and LUMO of −5.20 eV and −3.60 eV respectively, is a robust donor, as shown by the existing literature.
Computed VOC of IDSTR and IDST1–IDST7 acceptors with the combination of PTB7-Th.
This characteristic is significantly influenced by the VOC at the donor–acceptor contact.
The theoretical estimations demonstrate that these non-fullerene acceptors may be useful in practice due to their outstanding optoelectronic characteristics.
In this computational approach, seven new indaceno dithiophene based small acceptor molecules (IDST1–IDST7) have been developed of A–D–A type by the alteration of IDSTR molecule.
By coupling the IDST1–IDST7 acceptors with PTB7-Th donor the VOC was estimated and the results showed that VOC of IDST4 (1.50 eV), IDST5 (1.47 eV) and IDST6 (1.38 eV) is higher than IDSTRVOC (1.37 eV).
For an energy transfer, the energy cascades from wide‐bandgap domains to the narrow‐bandgap domains via virtual photon at ultrafast timescale (within a timeframe of ps),[  29 ,  35 ,  99  ] which relies on the distance, spectral overlap, and dipole orientation between donor and acceptor.
[  29 ,  77 ,  105  ] For the conventional CT concept, the charge carriers “travel” from a donor to acceptor.
Whereas, in the energy funneling system, CT suggests carrier diffusion driven by the concentration gradient and carrier drift driven by a bandgap gradient without the separation of donor and acceptor.
Organic photovoltaic systems comprising donor polymers and acceptor fullerene derivatives are attractive for inexpensive energy harvesting.
Since the majority of modern PSCs consist of nanoscale bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structures [7], changes in the internal structures, such as local crystallization of polymers or phase separation of donor and acceptor mixtures, greatly affect the device performance [8–9].
Extensive research has been performed to optimize the morphology of the active layer by controlling fabrication parameters such as donor/acceptor ratio, casting solvents, additives, and thermal and solvent annealing processes [8,10–12].
Due to the complicated nanoscale three-dimensional distribution of donor and acceptor materials in BHJ structures, atomic force microscopy (AFM) has been a very useful tool to observe the dependence of performance on the local morphology of PSCs [15], thus providing insights into the operating mechanism of PSCs.
The active layer of the test PSCs comprises the donor and acceptor materials poly[N-9′-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT) [17] and [6,6]-phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), respectively.
As described in the Experimental section, PCDTBT (the donor polymer) does not fully dissolve in CB, whereas it is almost completely dissolved in DCB.
Besides the ratio of short- to long-chain polymers, the solubility differences of donor and acceptor materials and the boiling point of the solvents affect the morphology and thus the performance of PSCs [20].
Although there are differences regarding the donor material used, the methods followed and the size of the island-like features, the authors of this previous study reported that PCBM crystallites are formed and grow in size according to the processing time of solvent vapor annealing (slow drying of a film) [23].
In addition to the qualitative energy-diagram analysis, we calculated the quantum tunneling transmission coefficient (T) of charge carriers through the barrier for the metal–donor and metal–acceptor interfaces.
The simulation results also show a difference of several orders of magnitude between the electron and hole transmission rate through the donor and acceptor materials.
In accordance with the general working principle of PSCs, this means that the electron current prefers the acceptor pathway and the hole current prefers the donor pathway due to the energy differences of HOMO and LUMO levels.
In real BHJ devices, both the macroscopic morphology and the microscopic conformation of donors and acceptors have a very strong influence on the overall mobility of charge carriers.
We thus discuss the possible source of the aggregates, including donor polymer, acceptor polymer, other impurities and environmental contamination.
Second, the samples were fabricated many times over a period of several months using different batches of donor and acceptor bulk materials and showed consistently the same behavior, so that accidental addition of other impurities is not expected to be the source of the aggregates.
Third, if donor polymer molecules accumulated at the surface, one would expect it to conduct holes (see Figure 5) and exhibit positive contrast for the potential measurement.
However, if the aggregates are made of acceptor molecules, hole conduction would be deficient (see Figure 5) and localization of electrons would cause negative potential changes [40].
Organic SCs are fabricated on the elementary structure of inorganic SCs by substituting n-type and p-type with donors and acceptors [6,7,8].
The literature revealed many reports where organic systems with the following various architectures: donor-acceptor, donor-π-linker-acceptor-π-spacer-donor, donor-π spacer-acceptor, donor-donor-π-acceptor, acceptor-π-spacer-donor-π-linker-acceptor and donor-acceptor-π-acceptor.
Further, NFAs are blended with donor polymers and, subsequently, optical absorption properties are improved.
Apart from this, there is also found some of the following features of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) derivatives: facile synthesis [13,21], material design [25,26] and realization of the mechanism and their optimization [27,28].
The NF-OSCs are categorized into the following two groups: small molecular acceptor (SMA) and polymer organic solar cells (POSCs) [6,7,32].
In the current century, devotion is paid to engineering polymer bulk hetero-junction (BHJ) SCs initiated on fullerene donors and fullerene-free polymeric acceptors, progressing efficiency to 8.3% [37].
Different strategies and criteria are present in the literature, which imply fine-tuning of acceptor-donor blend to boost UV-Visible absorption, resulting in uplifted short circuit current density (Jsc), lessening of the energy gap between HOMO and LUMO, optimized morphology of blend to increase the fill factor (FF) and open-circuit voltage (Voc).
After replacing 4,4-dimethyl-4H-cyclopenta [1,2-b:5,4-b’]dithiophene with a selenophene ring as the first π-spacer (π1) and via substituting both the terminal acceptors with benzothiophene acceptors (A2) on both sides, the parent compound is modified into a reference compound, which is denoted as D1.
From the literature, we found that selenophene units and benzothiophene acceptors can lower the LUMO level with an unchanged HOMO level and effectively improve the Voc and Jsc in POSCs [42,43,44,45].
Therefore, in the current study, we performed molecular engineering of D1 with a selenophene ring and benzothiophene acceptors to improve the Voc.
The terminal acceptors (2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile) in DF-PCIC are replaced with a benzothiophene-based acceptor (2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-benzo[b]cyclopenta[d]thiophen-1-ylidene)malononitrile) in order to improve the electron-withdrawing effect in D1 (Scheme 1 and Figure 1).
The D2 and D3 are designed by introducing two and three units of selenophene, respectively, keeping the same acceptors as shown in Figure 1.
The effective charge mobility from acceptor−2 to acceptor−1 through π-spacer along with the lowest Egap among the molecular orbitals are noticed in D7 chromophore than other designed molecules, which emerged to be an efficient material for use in photovoltaic devices.
In D1 and D2, charge density is significantly concentrated on the central part, while a little bit of electronic density is noticed on terminal acceptor entities in HOMO and LUMO.
In D3, D5 and D7, HOMO is majorly concentrated on the acceptor−2 and π-bridge, whereas LUMO is mainly located in electron-deficient end-capped groups.
Hence, the analyzed molecular systems showed charge transmission from acceptor−2 to acceptor−1 through the π-bridge.
To perform this analysis, the designed molecules are partitioned into four fragments, i.e., acceptor-2, π-spacer-2, acceptor-1 and π-spacer-1.
The DOS pictographs are displayed in Figure 5, where each fragment is presented in different colors (acceptor-2 with red, acceptor-1 with green, π-spacer-2 with blue and π-spacer-1 with pink lines).
The pattern of electronic charge dissemination is altered by changing acceptor moieties and extending the π-spacer, which is justified by the DOS percentage of HOMO-LUMO.
Herein, acceptor-1 depicted 14.1, 14.7, 13.0, 7.2 and 4.2% charge distribution pattern to HOMO, whereas 9.8, 7.1, 3.8, 1.0 and 0.2% to LUMO for D1, D2, D3, D5 and D7, respectively.
Likewise, acceptor-2 showed charge contributions as follows: 22.4, 18.5, 14.1, 7.4 and 3.7% to HOMO, while 60.0, 53.4, 59.1, 61.8 and 64.0% to LUMO.
It is clear from these outcomes that HOMO is predominantly located on acceptor-1, while LUMO mainly resides on acceptor-2 in the aforementioned compounds.
The pictorial representation of interaction among acceptor and donor entities in the S1 (excited) state is represented by the blue region in the spatial map [42,85].
Figure 6 displayed that the electron density effectually transfers from the core to terminal acceptors through π-spacers in D1, D2, D3, D5 and D7 allowing efficient charge transfer.
The Voc is closely related to the energy difference between HOMO and LUMO of the donor (D) and acceptor (A) compounds [90].
In order to attain a higher Voc, in the acceptor molecule, the LUMO level should be lower and for the donor molecule, the HOMO level should be with a high energy level [91].
Hence, E is an elementary charge of acceptors, signifies the charge on each molecule, and 0.3 denotes the empirical constant.
The chlorinated polymer J52-Cl is a well-known donor polymer widely used in large published reports to blend with acceptor molecules in charge transfer analysis.
To determine the Voc of the current investigation a donor polymer (J52-Cl) is utilized.
In Table 7, the calculated values of Voc are illustrated along with the ELUMO of D1, D2, D3, D5 and D7 in relation to the EHOMO of the donor polymer (J52-Cl).
The Voc value for D1, D2, D3, D5 and D7 with respect to LUMOacceptor HOMOdonor energy difference is determined to be 1.549, 1.584, 1.600, 1.624 and 1.632V, respectively.
Since the transference of electrons from donor (D) to acceptor (A) segments, the HOMO/LUMO energy gap is a crucial tool for improving the PCEs of solar cells.
This form of molecular orbital alignment makes it easier for the electron density to move from the donor polymer to the acceptor, as all our derivatives possess a lower value of LUMO than the J52Cl, which improves optoelectronic behavior.
In order to improve the electron-withdrawing effect of terminal acceptors, benzothiophene-based acceptors are also introduced in D1, D2, D3, D5 and D7 compounds.
The typical acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) structure is adopted with 4,8-functionalized BDT moieties as core, dioctylterthiophene as π bridge and 3-ethylrhodanine as electron-withdrawing end group.
In comparison to polymer donors, conjugated small molecules boast well-defined structure to eliminate the structural variation in terms of regioregularities, molecular weight and polydispersity.
Moreover, small molecules can be more easily designed to meet the criteria of good donors for BHJ solar cells, such as strong absorption, suitable energy levels, high hole mobility and solubility101112.
One of the challenges in developing high-efficiency small molecules OSCs is the generation of nanoscale phase-segregated donor-acceptor (D-A) heterojuction in the active layer.
The impact of 4,8-difuntionalities on BDT core on the resultant D-A polymers donors for OSC application has been extensively investigated2425.
For SM-OSCs, it is very difficult to achieve appropriate phase separation in active layers for SM donors with short conjugated backbone.
The electron donor materials SM and electron acceptor materials PC71BM were dissolved in chloroform to generate 20 mg ml−1 blend solutions.
Thus, DR3TBDTTSC8:PC71BM blend may have higher probability of exciton recombination before reaching the donor–acceptor interface, resulting in low FF for the device.
The systematic study of morphology change with SVA treatment revealed that the presence of solvent molecules inside the BHJ thin film promotes the mobility of both donor and acceptor molecules, leading to crystallization and aggregation, which are important in modulating the thin film morphology10.
Various novel OPV materials have been developed so far to meet the needs of absorbing different regions of the solar spectrum and ensuring donor/acceptor energy level alignment to achieve high-power conversion efficiency (PCE)5–13.
In OPV devices, the morphology of the active layer, comprising blends of polymer/oligomer/small-molecule donors and acceptors plays a critical role.
The ideal OPV active layer is a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) bicontinuous-interpenetrating network formed by donor and acceptor segregation, which affords efficient charge generation and transport simultaneously14,15.
Even in the simplest binary donor/acceptor mixture, the solidification process from solvent evaporation can hardly be described based on interactions within a binary blend only, because solvent interaction with solutes need to be evaluated, which requires the use of a ternary phase diagram to address the issue.
Small-molecule donor and fullerene acceptor binary blends are chosen as the model systems to simplify the study due to well-defined physical properties and easier probing capabilities, and the results can be widely applied due to generality in consideration and observation.
Crystallization and diffusion of the donor molecules in a moderate temperature region determine the length scale of phase separation, phase purity, and interfacial orientation, which are decisive factors that control short-circuit current (JSC) and fill factor (FF) of solar cells.
Extended efforts are applied to most recent high-performance non-fullerene acceptor (NFA)-based BHJ solar cells, forming unified conclusions.
Thus, morphology evolution in DR3TSBDT:PC71BM blend during thermal annealing is a later stage of crystallization-induced phase purification process, in which the donor crystal growth depletes the PC71BM and cause donor concentration impoverishment in the remaining mixed region.
Thus, the diffusion of donor molecule towards growth front and the subsequent crystallization are efficient.
Such a purification process pushes PC71BM to get enriched at the interface between the donor crystallites and the mixed region, which elevates the Tg of the interface and also the mixed region.
Finally, the system is jammed by the donor deficient vitrified mixed region that frustrates the further donor diffusion and crystallization47.Fig.
The size and intensity of phase separation lag slightly behind the crystallization process, indicating it is a diffusion-limited process that transport of donor molecule slows down when the mixed region gets depleted and thus the definition of density fluctuation goes slower than crystallization.
Thermodynamic miscibility of donor/acceptor blend
These methods yield two sets of χ results (tabulated in Table 1) that describe the miscibility between donor and acceptors based on different theoretical backgrounds.
The glass transition of donor materials is usually low, and in blends should be well below that of PCBM Tg.
Assuming both donor and acceptor are semi-crystalline (a single crystallizable component with an amorphous component is easier to deal with, and if the second component with higher Tg does not crystallize at the treatment temperature, we can treat it as an equivalent amorphous part), this system could adopt a non-equilibrium phase diagram with no miscibility gap in the whole range, exhibiting a pseudo-eutectic feature (Fig.
The PCBM has a Tg of 120–160 °C, and the investigated donor materials have Tg between 25–70 °C (Supplementary Figs. 13–15)40.
When thermally annealed at 100 °C, the crystallites within the donor-rich region continue to grow and PC71BM get expelled to the mixed region and get stabilized within 10 min due to the vitrification of the interface and the mixed region upon PC71BM enrichment.
OPV donor materials show preferred orientation quite common in varied systems.
It should be noted that in NFA blends both donor and acceptor materials are semi-crystalline, and thus the discourse needs to take both crystallization processes into account.
The study of small donor molecules as the active component of organic solar cells continues to attract considerable attention due to the range of advantages these molecules have over their polymeric counterparts.
Here we report the synthesis and solar cell fabrication of three BODIPY small molecule donors.
Two of the dyes feature triphenylamine and phenothiazine as donor units attached to the meso and α-positions of the BODIPY core (TPA-PTZ-DBP and PTZ-TPA-BDP).
In contrast with the all-donor functionalised systems, N-TPA-BDP demonstrated extensive HOMO–LUMO overlap by DFT.
The dyes were investigated as donor molecules in bulk heterojunction solar cells along with PC71BM, and under optimal donor to acceptor ratio PTZ-TPA-BDP showed the highest PCE of 1.62%.
A morphology comprised of finely mixed donor and acceptor components is observed for BHJ blends of each of the three donors at their optimum fullerene content.
These dyes show that phenothiazine functionalisation of BODIPY is useful for solar cells because it gives strong and broad absorption extending to the near infra-red and materials with reversible redox properties – both of which are desirable for organic solar cells.We report the synthesis of donor/acceptor functionalised BODIPY derivatives and their incorporation as donor molecules in bulk heterojunction solar cells.
Organic electronic materials have undergone considerable development and possess several attractive features for applications such as transistors,1 light emitting diodes2 and solar cells.3,4 Organic photovoltaic (OPV) materials have attracted considerable attention due to their low cost, flexibility, high optical absorption coefficient, and simple fabrication.5,6 To obtain high performance and good stability, OPV materials need to have broad absorption, enable efficient charge generation and extraction whilst also having reversible redox processes.7 Enormous effort has been directed towards device engineering and optimization of the chemical structure of active materials which has resulted in ever increasing efficiency of both polymer and small molecule solar cells.8–10 Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells are fabricated from a blend of an electron donor (D) and an electron acceptor (A),11 and consist typically of a low bandgap polymer or small molecule.
In addition, BODIPYs usually possess good chemical, photochemical and thermal stability, and often feature deep HOMO energy levels which lead to a high open circuit voltage (Voc).15,16 Several strategies have been taken to modify the BODIPY core and tune the properties in the desired direction.14–24 Diverse molecular structures have been investigated by attaching donor moieties to different positions of the BODIPY core giving molecules with near IR absorption, high molecular extinction coefficient (ε),15,19,22,25–27 near-planar molecular structure,14,17,28 efficient charge transport and good quality film formation,16,17,19,28 together with favourable power conversion efficiencies (PCEs).29 However, despite the remarkable photo-physical properties and the promising results reported so far,29–31 understanding the role functional units attached to the BODIPY core play in determining their optoelectronic and photovoltaic properties remains an important goal in order to understand the best approach to combine donor and acceptor units within these dyes to produce different BODIPY based BHJ solar cells.
The incorporation of donor moieties on the 3,5-positions (α) of the BODIPY core appears to be the preferred approach to avoid highly twisted structures.14,19–22 In fact, one of the best performing BODIPY dyes possessing a highly planar molecular structure is functionalized with vinyl-thiophene units attached to these positions.14 On the other hand, Mao et al.
recently indicated that phenothiazine (PTZ) donor moieties communicate adequately with the BODIPY core through the 2,6-positions which leads to some of the best performing BODIPY-based dye sensitized solar cells,32,33 presumably due to the electron donating ability and near-planar butterfly conformation of the PTZ unit.34 Interestingly, Liao et al.
recently used this moiety to fabricate a 2,6-linked dimer for BHJ solar cells that achieved a 3.33% PCE.17 Therefore, incorporation of these moieties in the α-positions is attractive as α-substituted BODIPYs possess some of the most attractive properties from this family of dyes for OPVs (including near-IR absorption and high absorptivity).16,35 In the present work, we report the synthesis and characterization of three new BODIPY dyes functionalized in the meso and α-positions for application as donor material in BHJ solar cells.
We have investigated the effect of adding three donor units [phenothiazine (PTZ) and triphenylamine (TPA)] to the meso and α-positions (abbreviated from hereafter as PTZ-TPA-BDP and TPA-PTZ-BDP) and in the case of N-PTZ-BDP the addition of an electron accepting nitrobenzene unit to the meso-position of the BODIPY core has on the optical, electronic and BHJ solar cell device characteristics (Fig.
Photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) of the neat donor films was measured using an integrating sphere based measurement system (Hamamatsu, C9920-02) under nitrogen flow.37 The films were excited at a wavelength of 350 nm.
For each donor molecule, the photovoltaic performance optimization process was started with identifying the donor to acceptor ratio (wt%, varying from 1 : 1 to 1 : 6) giving the best photovoltaic performance.
The acceptor molecule used was PC71BM (American Dye Sources, ADS71BFA) and the total concentration of the D:A blend mixture was 10 mg mL−1 in chloroform.
Donor and acceptor solutions were stirred separately for ∼6 hours and then the blended mixture was stirred for another 3 hours.
The bands centered at around 340 nm are attributed to the π–π* transition originating from the conjugated backbone, whereas the bands centered at around 700 nm correspond to the S0–S1 transition due to the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) between donor and acceptor moieties.
The latter is expected to originate primarily from the donor moieties (located on the α-positions) to the electron-deficient core upon photoexcitation since the degree of conjugation between the donor unit located at the meso-position and the core is often low.14,43 The parent BODIPY dye molecule absorbs in the visible in the range 400–600 nm.44,45 Compounds 7, 8 and 10 show absorption maxima around 520 nm40 [the spectra of compound 8 is given in ESI, Fig.
The PL emission spectra of the neat donor and acceptor films are shown in Fig.
On the other hand, a higher degree of co-planarity between the styryl donor units with the BODIPY core was observed, demonstrating that the π-conjugation is efficient through the α-position for the three dyes.
Solution processed BHJ devices were fabricated using TPA-PTZ-BDP, PTZ-TPA-BDP and N-PTZ-BDP as the electron donor material and PC71BM as the acceptor material.
The energy level diagram of the donor and acceptor molecules are shown in Fig.
The photovoltaic performance of the dyes were evaluated systematically with careful optimization of the processing parameters such as ratio of donor to acceptor (D : A) and thermal annealing temperature.
In the case of small molecule donor based OPVs, the relative content of the donor and acceptor molecule is crucial in obtaining a homogeneously mixed BHJ morphology for efficient exciton harvesting and for the formation of sufficient charge transport network.7,49 The optimized weight ratio of each of the donor molecules to PC71BM is obtained by varying it from 1 : 1 to 1 : 6 and keeping the total concentration 10 mg mL−1.
For TPA-PTZ-BDP, PTZ-TPA-BDP and N-PTZ-BDP these optimized donor to acceptor ratios are respectively 1 : 6, 1 : 4 and 1 : 3.
In contrast, Voc decreases slightly with increasing acceptor content.
This can be due to the finer morphology of the BHJ blend with increasing content of the fullerene and/or the tail states near the quasi Fermi level due to the amorphous nature of the fullerene.51,52 It is noteworthy that although these donor molecules possess high absorption coefficients in the near infrared region (Fig.
This low short circuit current density could be due to unfavorable morphology of the donor–acceptor blend (vide infra) which can limit the photogenerated exciton dissociation or enhance the recombination losses of the photogenerated charge carriers.
Furthermore, the Voc of these OPVs are in the range of 0.6–0.7 V, which is due to the relatively shallow HOMO levels of these donor molecules as shown in Fig.
Such a morphology gives fast charge pair generation at the interface between donor and acceptor, but enhances the recombination losses as carrier transport is interrupted by domain boundaries.53 This leads to needing a significant electric field to dissociate charge pairs and extract them, leading to the low fill factors we observe here.
To investigate how the three different BODIPY donor molecules form distinctive bulk heterojunction with PC71BM, the morphological properties of the blends were characterized using atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Very small domains implying fine mixing of the donor and acceptor components are seen from these AFM height images with root mean square surface roughness of less than 1 nm for all these blends.
Thus as mentioned in the photovoltaic characterization section, at higher D : A blend ratio, (which is the optimum for three donors), this finer surface morphology can increase the photogeneration of charge carriers, but can increase the recombination losses which is reflected in the slightly reduced open circuit voltages at higher acceptor content (Table S3–S5†).
Moreover, this finer morphology of the blends, lacking bi-continuous percolative pathways to the charge collecting electrodes could be the reason for the low short circuit density and the low FF, as the possibility of charge recombination is higher for this kind of finely mixed donor and acceptor blend.54–56 Compared to TPA-PTZ-BDP:PC71BM and PTZ-TPA-BDP:PC71BM blends, N-PTZ-BDP:PC71BM (Fig.
Comparison of surface morphology (height images) of optimized blend ratio of each of the BODIPY donor molecules with PC71BM for as-cast and annealed films; (a) & (d) for PTZ:TPA-BDP:PC71BM, (b) & (e) for TPA-PTZ-BDP:PC71BM (c) & (f) for N-PTZ:BDP:PC71BM.
Three new BODIPY donor materials featuring PTZ moieties as donor units at the α-positions or as meso-linker, TPA-PTZ-BDP, PTZ-TPA-BDP and N-PTZ-BDP, were designed and synthesized.
The small molecules showed compatible photoelectric characteristics for the application as donor in BHJ solar cells together with PCB71M.
Finally, the findings discussed in this contribution show that the PTZ groups can make effective electron donor moieties as vinyl-substituents at the α-position with a high degree of planarity leading to dyes that possess panchromatic absorption, and indicate that the introduction of acceptor moieties in the meso-position is promising for high performance BODIPY-based BHJ solar cells.
In this work, we show that trap-assisted recombination loss of photocurrent is universally present under operational conditions in a wide variety of organic solar cell materials including the new non-fullerene electron acceptor systems currently breaking all efficiency records.
Recently, organic solar cells have surpassed 17%1,2 power conversion efficiency (PCE) in single-absorber layer bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices based upon non-fullerene electron acceptor systems.
In BHJs, the LUMO of the electron-transporting acceptor and the HOMO of the hole-transporting donor in the active layer typically lie within the 3.6–6.0 eV window of trap-free electron and hole transport in their respective domains.
The trap depth is then defined as \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\Delta }_{{\rm{t}}}\,=\,{E}_{{\rm{L}},{\rm{A}}}\,-\,{E}_{{\rm{t}}}$$\end{document}Δt=EL,A−Et, where \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{{\rm{L}},{\rm{A}}}$$\end{document}EL,A is the LUMO level energy of the acceptor.
1Schematic energy level diagram and drift-diffusion simulations of intensity-dependent EQE and Voc in the presence of trap states.a Schematic energy level diagram of donor: acceptor BHJ solar cell with acceptor LUMO level (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{A,L}}$$\end{document}EA,L) and donor HOMO level (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{D,H}}$$\end{document}ED,H).
b Comparison of simulated external quantum efficiency (EQE) vs. intensity between the case with (blue, solid line) and without (red, dashed line) trap states in the donor: acceptor blend bulk.
a Schematic energy level diagram of donor: acceptor BHJ solar cell with acceptor LUMO level (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{A,L}}$$\end{document}EA,L) and donor HOMO level (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{D,H}}$$\end{document}ED,H).
b Comparison of simulated external quantum efficiency (EQE) vs. intensity between the case with (blue, solid line) and without (red, dashed line) trap states in the donor: acceptor blend bulk.
The critical electron density at which \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{{\rm{F}},{\rm{n}}}\,=\,{E}_{{\rm{t}}}$$\end{document}EF,n=Et is given by1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${n}_{1}\,=\,{N}_{{\rm{L}},{\rm{A}}}{{\exp }}\left(-\frac{{\Delta }_{{\rm{t}}}}{{kT}}\right),$$\end{document}n1=NL,Aexp−ΔtkT,where \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${N}_{{\rm{L}},{\rm{A}}}$$\end{document}NL,A is the density of transport states in the LUMO of the acceptor, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$k$$\end{document}k is the Boltzmann constant and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$T$$\end{document}T is the absolute temperature.
2First-order, trap-induced recombination in fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells.a Experimental (blue symbols) and simulated (red lines) normalized external quantum efficiency (EQE) plotted as a function of intensity for three different organic solar cells together with the estimated relative QE losses induced by first-order, trap-assisted recombination: PCDTBT:PC70BM (5%), PTB7-Th:PC70BM (4%) and PM6:BTP-eC9 (3%).
c Relative QE loss induced by first-order, trap-assisted recombination for different fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells.
d Slope parameter \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\alpha$$\end{document}α extracted from within the second EQE plateau for a large variety of donor: acceptor BHJ systems.
First-order, trap-induced recombination in fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells.
c Relative QE loss induced by first-order, trap-assisted recombination for different fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells.
d Slope parameter \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\alpha$$\end{document}α extracted from within the second EQE plateau for a large variety of donor: acceptor BHJ systems.
This two-step EQE behavior was detected for a large variety of fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic solar cells (see Supplementary Fig. 4).
Although we cannot realistically study every possible combination of acceptor and donor organic semiconductors, the consistency of these findings points towards the universal presence of first-order recombination via deep traps in the bulk of organic solar cells.
d Schematic energy level diagram of a donor: acceptor blend with \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{L,A}}$$\end{document}EL,A and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{H,D}}$$\end{document}EH,D denoting the acceptor LUMO and donor HOMO energy level.
The (electron) trap state is located at an energy \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{t}}$$\end{document}Et within the donor: acceptor gap \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{g}}$$\end{document}Eg.
d Schematic energy level diagram of a donor: acceptor blend with \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{L,A}}$$\end{document}EL,A and \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{H,D}}$$\end{document}EH,D denoting the acceptor LUMO and donor HOMO energy level.
The (electron) trap state is located at an energy \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{t}}$$\end{document}Et within the donor: acceptor gap \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{\text{g}}$$\end{document}Eg.
With the trap depth \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${\Delta }_{{\rm{t}}}\,=\,0.48$$\end{document}Δt=0.48 eV, and assuming a donor: acceptor effective gap of \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{{\rm{g}}}\,=\,1.4$$\end{document}Eg=1.4 eV for charge-separated states, this corresponds to a binding energy (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${E}_{{\rm{b}}}\,=\,{E}_{{\rm{g}}}\,-\,{\Delta }_{{\rm{t}}}\,-\,{E}_{{\rm{CT}},{\rm{trap}}}$$\end{document}Eb=Eg−Δt−ECT,trap) of 0.18 eV.
The SCLC results point towards these traps being predominately acceptor-type electron traps.
In conclusion, we have shown that first-order recombination losses caused by traps are universally present in a large variety of fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor-based organic semiconductor BHJ solar cells.
This loss is caused by trap states situated \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\sim 0.35-0.6$$\end{document}~0.35−0.6 eV below the transport edges of the acceptor: donor blend having trap densities between \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${10}^{16}\,{\rm{and}}\,{10}^{17}$$\end{document}1016and1017 cm−3.
At low excitations, the majority of holes are generated by ionization of shallow acceptors (unintentional chemical doping).
At low excitations, the majority of holes are generated by ionization of shallow acceptors (unintentional chemical doping).
We assume that films contain a low concentration of shallow acceptors (unintentional chemical p-doping).
The recent improvement in efficiency was mainly attributed to the development of small-molecule acceptors (SMAs) such as ITIC, Y6, and their derivatives.
Organic solar cells (OSCs), composed of a blend active layer of a p-type organic semiconductor as a donor and an n-type organic semiconductor as an acceptor, have attracted great attention in recent years due to their advantages such as light weight, solution processability, and intrinsic flexibility.1−5 The acceptors used in the OSCs include fullerene derivatives (such as PC71BM) and non-fullerene organic small-molecule acceptors (SMAs).6,7 Fullerenes and their derivatives, benefited from their excellent electron affinity and charge-transfer ability, are the first-generation acceptors, achieving a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 11% in OSCs.8−11 However, their limited extinction coefficient in the visible light range causes a large loss of solar energy and a small short-circuit current density (Jsc), hindering their further application in OSCs.
In 2015, a brand-new A-D-A-structured SMA, ITIC, was developed by Zhan and co-workers.12 ITIC possesses narrow band gap, strong absorbance, and suitable electronic energy levels, and the OSCs with ITIC and its derivatives as acceptors display a high PCE of 12–14%.13−17 Recently, a new type of A-DA′D-A SMA Y6 was designed by Zou and co-workers.
Third, some differences between Y6 and IT-4F were studied to understand the higher performance of Y6 when cooperating with many donors.
All calculations were performed by ORCA (version 4.2.1) unless otherwise stated.22 The conformations were generated by molclus (version 1.9.4) and optimized first by the xTB program followed by DFT calculations for saving time.23,24 As discussed by Lu and co-workers25 for conjugation structures, due to the lack of enough Hartree–Fock (HF) exchange, the functionals such as B3LYP (20%) and PBE0 (25%) would overestimate the conjugation effect, which might not be the most suitable functional for the calculation of acceptors in OSCs.
These results give an explanation why introducing fluorine atoms does not affect much the absorption edge of the acceptors (Figure 2d).
15 and 30 nm red-shifted than ITIC, respectively).12,37−39 Another ITIC derivative acceptor, IT-DM40 (ELF graph in Figure 2c) with electron-donating methyl group substituents instead of the electron-withdrawing halogen substituents in IT-4F and IT-4Cl, gives an inferential result of a blue-shift absorption compared with ITIC.
The stronger conjugation might enhance the stability of the entire molecule, counting for the better stability of narrow band-gap acceptors in tandem photovoltaics.43 The simulated absorption spectrum of ITVffIC, as shown in Figure 2h, shows 20 nm red-shift even than F9IC, which is consistent with the experimental result, showing the potential of the double bond in expanding the molecular conjugation.
The electrostatic potential (ESP) of IT-4F indicates that the core is more positive, and the end groups are more negative (Figure 3e), so that the acceptor molecules are likely to perform CEA with the assistance of electrostatic interactions.
This type of aggregation behavior leads to a large overlap of the two acceptor molecules and helps increasing the exciton diffusion length, benefiting both the Jsc and the fill factor (see the Supporting Information).
We infer that this type of aggregation is related to the charge transport process, which takes place in the pure phase of the acceptor, and involves an anion molecule and a neutral molecule.
In the charge transport process, the end groups in the anion acceptor collect the charge from all its own molecules (deep blue atoms in end groups in an anion acceptor); besides, the end groups in the neutral acceptor help to extract the charge from another anion acceptor to the neutral acceptor.
These results show that the EEA increased in m-ITIC and a balance of CAE and EEA (nearly 1:1) is achieved, resulting in a higher mobility of electrons and an improvement of the fill factor from 65.49% for ITIC to 70.55% for m-ITIC, with J61 as a polymer donor.
As the excitons diffuse to the interface of donors and acceptors, the smaller binding energy could help decrease the driving force to form the CT state, enabling a small or near-zero energy level offset.
Besides, we can distinguish a longer overlap of the Y6 dimer in CAE (17.40 Å, as shown in Figure 4e) compared to IT-4F (12.43 Å, as shown in Figure 3a), which benefits the exciton diffusion and might count for the higher PCEs of Y6 when cooperating with many donors.
The longer length of excitons makes more excitons diffuse to the interfaces of the donor and acceptor to dissociate, therefore inducing a higher external quantum efficiency (EQE) response.
As the first acceptor in OSCs achieves 15.7% efficiency, many efforts have been devoted to the molecular modulation of Y6 to further improve its photovoltaic performance, including alkyl engineering,54,55 core engineering,46,56 and end-group engineering.5,57 N3 (shown in Figure 4a), with the alkyl chain branch position moving to the third carbon, shows less hindrance with reduced torsion of the molecule and hence a more planar structure, as shown in Figure 4c.
(h) Distribution of the fill factor for ITIC-based and Y6-based OSCs and distribution of the fill factor for acceptors used in OSCs with or without fluorine modification in end groups, and (i) and (j) for frequency counts.
However, AQx-1 with methyl side chains on the quinoxaline ring shows a longer π–π stacking distance (Figure 5f, 0.161 Å longer than AQx-2), which results in relatively poorer performance of the PSCs with AQx-1 as an acceptor.
This result indicates the F, Cl, and Br substitution could slightly down-shift the electronic energy level of acceptors without severely affecting the molecular absorption, which would help to build active layers with the near-zero energy level offset to achieve high PCEs in OSCs.5
Hence, we also summarized the fill factor of OSCs with fluoride modification in acceptors or without.
The results are shown in Figure 5h,j, the fluoride modification in acceptors induces a high fill factor with the range of 73%–77% than the acceptors without fluoride modification with the range of 66%–72%.
The mean and median fill factors for fluoride modification acceptors are 75% and 74%, which are higher than the acceptors without fluoride modification whose mean and median fill factors are 70% and 68%.
We aimed to use these organic semiconductors as donor and acceptor materials for a photovoltaic retinal implant.
When we analyzed their absorption spectrum, the polymer D18 as a wide bandgap donor shows strong absorption in the visible light spectrum, whereas the Y6 non-fullerene acceptor has a complementary narrow bandgap, enabling light gathering in the near infrared region.
Y6, or 2,2′-((2Z,2′Z)-((12,13-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-3,9-diundecyl-12,13-dihydro-[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-e]thieno [2′′,3′′:4′,5’]thieno[2′,3′:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2-g]thieno[2′,3′:4,5]thieno[3,2-b]indole-2,10-diyl)bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene))dimalononitrile, is a popular non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) molecule.
In addition, a device efficiency of 18.22% and certified efficiency of 17.6% have been achieved using D18 as the electron donor and Y6 as an acceptor in a single-junction non-fullerene polymer solar cell [30].
Active layer solutions of the donor:acceptor blend D18:Y6 were prepared following the procedure described in [27], where a solution with a D/A weight ratio of 1:1.6 and a concentration of 9 mg/mL in chloroform was used.
However, the typical NP core–shell morphology (driven by the different donor/acceptor affinities for the surfactant used in NP synthesis) currently hinders the photovoltaic performance.
In this work, the morphology of conventional sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and 2-(3-thienyl) ethyloxybutylsulfonate (TEBS)-stabilized poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) donor:phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) acceptor NPs is probed using scanning transmission X-ray microscopy, UV–vis spectroscopy, grazing-incidence X-ray diffraction, and scanning electron microscopy.
Nanoparticle (NP) ink technology (whereby donor and acceptor materials are processed to form nanoparticles using green solvents such as water or alcohols) enables both preaggregation of the donor/acceptor domains (resulting in beneficial phase separation akin to bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices) and eco-friendly OPV fabrication.8,9 In principle, there are two methodologies to prepare NPs: (a) precipitation and (b) miniemulsion.
This problem can be solved by the miniemulsion process, which is a common and powerful strategy for synthesizing stable aqueous-processed nanoparticle inks.9,11 Preparing stable aqueous NP dispersions of hydrophobic conjugated organic donor–acceptor materials is achieved by using surfactants, such as sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS).12
The performance of SDS-processed NP-OPV devices is still limited, even for highly efficient donor–acceptor materials, due to several factors.13 First, the presence of excess SDS surfactant inside the photoactive layer can form a dipole layer near the electrode interfaces due to the accumulation of the mobile surfactant.
Although centrifugal dialysis is an effective strategy for removing excess surfactant from the dispersed NP inks, optimization is a complex process as overdialysis may lead to unstable suspensions and/or the formation of cavities due to changes in NP surface tension.15 Second, the phase-separated core–shell nanostructure, which is typical in SDS-stabilized NPs,16,17 results in poor exciton dissociation and hence reduced photo-current generation.18 As such, the creation of a more highly intermixed donor/acceptor NP domain morphology is essential to enhance exciton dissociation and hence the NP-OPV performance.19
The UV–visible spectroscopy, contrast-variation small-angle neutron scattering (CV-SANS), and cyclic voltammetry (CV) results revealed a homogeneous distribution of small demixed donor and acceptor domains within the TEBS NP structure, which, as indicated by the authors, has the potential to improve film formation of a photoactive layer and consequently the NP-OPV performance.
To prepare an organic phase (30 mg/mL) in the anhydrous chloroform solvent, 15 mg of P3HT polymer donor material and 15 mg of PC61BM fullerene acceptor material were stirred at 500 rpm, 35 °C for 25 min on a hotplate.
In particular, the origin of the core–shell morphology typically observed in NP materials is determined mainly by the surface energy differential (ΔGsurface = Gsurface(acceptor) – Gsurface(donor)) of the component materials, with the lower surface energy component segregating to the outermost surface during synthesis.16,27−29 This conclusion is supported by the work of Kosco et al.,25 who investigated the internal morphology of TEBS and SDS stabilized PTB7-Th (polymer donor) and EH-IDTBR (non-fullerene acceptor) NPs using small-angle neutron scattering, cryo-TEM, and interfacial tension analyses.
This surface energy difference was attributed to the greater affinity between the long aliphatic tail of SDS and the higher alkyl chain density of the PTB7-Th donor compared with that of the EH-IDTBR acceptor.
Because the affinity of SDS for PTB7-Th is higher than that of EH-IDTBR, radial phase segregation within the NP is thermodynamically favored, resulting in a PTB7-Th donor-rich shell and an EH-IDTBR acceptor-rich core morphology.
In this case, relative to SDS, a surfactant with a shorter aromatic tail, such as TEBS,20 will have increased affinity with the EH-IDTBR acceptor because it can interact more strongly with its exposed aromatic units.
An analogous structural argument can be used to explain the changes in the morphology of NPs observed in the P3HT/PCBM donor/acceptor system.
This observation is summarized in the schematics of intermixed donor/acceptor, pure donor-rich, and pure acceptor-rich NP morphologies presented in Figure 4b–d, respectively.
The morphologies of (b) intermixed donor/acceptor, (c) pure donor-rich, and (d) pure acceptor-rich nanoparticles are drawn based upon the classified composition zones of Z1, Z2, and Z3, respectively, where the donor (P3HT) and acceptor (PC61BM) materials are colored in blue and green, respectively.
NP morphology is determined by the relative affinities of the donor, acceptor, and surfactant materials.
The high surface area to volume ratio of small micelles means that energetic terms associated with the surface dominate those associated with the bulk volume.30 Thus, in the case of SDS (where the surfactant—donor and surfactant—acceptor affinities are significantly different), the higher affinity material is driven to the surface and ultimately a core–shell morphology ensues.
By contrast, in the case of TEBS (where the surfactant—donor and surfactant—acceptor affinities are similar) neither donor nor acceptor material is driven to the micelle surface and a blended morphology occurs.
The observation that the degree of intermixing of the donor and acceptor components decreases with increasing NP size is important and indicates that without any size control the TEBS P3HT/PC61BM NP inks are unlikely to show any improvement in device efficiency over their SDS-based counterparts.
By contrast, for the annealed devices, the PCE improvement produced by reducing the particle size distribution is dominated by increased JSC, indicating that: (i) more intermixed photoactive donor–acceptor morphologies are formed leading to enhanced charge dissociation and (ii) higher-quality thin photoactive layers are formed, which are beneficial for efficient charge transport.
This observed decrease in performance is consistent with overaging resulting in larger NP sizes and thus pure donor (region Z2)- or acceptor (region Z3)-dominated NP morphologies (Figure 4) with correspondingly reduced charge dissociation.
From the overall chemical and optical studies on TEBS-processed aqueous NPs, it is observed that TEBS as a surfactant is not only able to form stable water-processed dispersed NP inks but also generates a well intermixed donor–acceptor NP morphology, in contrast to the core–shell NP morphology typical for SDS-processed aqueous NPs.
The desired homogenous intermixed donor–acceptor morphology has been achieved through the understanding that the nanomorphology is a function of particle size.
Hence, through judicious control of the TEBS NP particle size distribution, it is possible to overcome the non-optimal core–shell distribution of donor and acceptor material domains typical of non-TEBS-based NPs.33 As such, this work offers a pathway for developing a range of TEBS-based NPs from different donor–acceptor materials with controlled morphologies; thereby enhancing the performance of eco-friendly OPV devices to a competitive level with other OPV technologies.
The STXM maps of TEBS-processed P3HT/PC61BM NPs revealed an intermixed donor/acceptor morphology that was particle size dependent, as opposed to the core–shell structure observed in SDS-based NPs of all sizes.
In the preparation of PTTVBDT-TPD and PTTVBDT-DPP, the feed molar ratio of M1 to the corresponding donor and the acceptor monomer (TPD or DPP units) in the reaction is 4:5:1.
In other words, 2,6-bis(trimethyltin)-4,8-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (M2) was copolymerized with 80 mol % of the dibromo donors (M1) and 20 mol % of the dibromo acceptor, M3 and M4, to generate the corresponding copolymer PTTVBDT-TPD and PTTVBDT-DPP, respectively.
Furthermore, by replacing TTV unit with electron acceptor TPD or DPP unit, a slightly broad and red-shift spectra of PTTVBDT-TPD with absorption edge measured at 647 nm was observed due to addition of the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) interaction between the TPD and BDT.
However, the absorption bands of the TPD containing polymers PTTVBDT-TPD are slightly broadened compared to PTTVBDT but are much narrower than for DPP-containing polymers PTTVBDT-DPP because TPD is a weaker acceptor than DPP [39,40].
Herein, the two-dimensional grazing incidence X-ray diffraction (2D-GIXRD) technique was used to understand the influence of the introduction of acceptors on crystallinity, π–π stacking, and polymer-packing orientation relative to the substrate in BDT-based PTTVs’ system.
By comparing with the HOMO of PTTVBDT, the HOMO energies of PTTVBDT-TPD and PTTVBDT-DPP are 0.11 and 0.06 eV, respectively, deeper due to the TTV unit being replaced to the stronger acceptor unit which reduces electron-donating ability.
On the other hand, the LUMO level is primarily affected by the electron-deficient units in general donor-acceptor polymers.
Hence, the order of the LUMO levels is PTTVBDT-DPP (−3.40 eV) < PTTVBDT-TPD (−3.29 eV) < PTTVBDT (−3.00 eV), which not only is consistent with the acceptor strength of the introduced units but also agrees with the results of UV–vis absorption spectra.
4.20 eV) should allow for efficient charge carrier generation to occur in the devices by overcoming Coulombic binding energy of the exciton, since it is normally accepted that the LUMO energies of the donor should be at least 0.3 eV higher than that of the acceptor in BHJ solar cells [9,43,44].
Since the Voc value of PSCs is primarily proportional to the difference between the HOMO energy level of the donor polymer and the LUMO energy level of the fullerene acceptor, these devices prepared from the blends of PTTVBDT, PTTVBDT-TPD, and PTTVBDT-DPP with PC61BM exhibited average Voc of 703, 740, and 723 mV, respectively, are in good agreement with the order of the HOMO energy levels of these polymers.
Furthermore, by introducing different electron-withdrawing groups, two terpolymers, PTTVBDT-TPD and PTTVBDT-DPP; display stronger absorption ability, lower-lying HOMO energy level, and preferred molecular orientation, indicating the absorption ability, bandgaps, and molecular energy levels of the polymers can be further tuned by replacing TTV-monomer units with different acceptors.
Thus, electron donor-acceptor blend films deliver a distinctly different photovoltaic performance, despite their virtually identical intrinsic optoelectronic properties.
In a N2 glove box, 0.5 mL of chloroform solutions containing PC61BM (5 mg, Luminescence Technology Corp., Taiwan Province) and donor materials (5 mg) were spin-coated (1000 rpm for 30 sec) onto the substrate.
Development of organic donor/acceptor-based photovoltaic (OPV), where donor and acceptor are typically organic molecules or polymers, is accelerating, with best efficiencies now at 12 % (Heliatek 2012; Mitsubishi 2013).
The photo-voltage from these materials is controlled by a charge transfer state generated at the interface between the donor/acceptor (Vandewal et al.
These results confirm that Ag could act as an acceptor of the photogenerated electrons by TiO2/rGO and encourage fast charge transportation due to the high metallic conductivity, which effectively suppresses the charge recombination in the composites.
Nitropehnol and trinirophenol have the highest level of LUMO and aminophenol has the lowest level of HOMO energies due to the existence of the acceptor and donor groups in the nitroaromatic rings.
So nitrophenol and trinitrophenol compounds as the electron acceptors are the proper options for our sensing studies.
In metal-free organic dye a donor-acceptor couple, D-π-A, is present, in which the electron donor is not only able to tune the electronic coupling with the acceptor, but also determines the molecule adsorbed state on the titania or zinc oxide nanocrystal in DSSC devices.
Several investigations about the donor modification were reported in recent years; in particular, the organic dye D3518 and derivatives (Y12319, LEG420), featuring phenyl extended triphenyl amine donor, gained popularity because of the prominent performance in DSSC devices.
It was reported that, when an extended triphenyl amine is used as the donor group, an up-shift of TiO2 conduction band (CB) edge (CBE) can be observed on account of the increased net surface dipole moment of the adsorbed dye molecules.
Inspired by their pioneer work, we designed and synthesized a series of novel organic dye, namely: (E)-2-(5-((7-(4-(bis(4-(5-(4-(hexyloxy)phenyl)thiophen-2-yl)phenyl)amino)phenyl)-2,3-dihydrothieno[3,4-b][1,4]dioxin-5-yl)methylene)-4-oxo-2-thioxothiazolidin-3-yl)acetic acid (labeled as B18), (E)-2-(5-((6-(4-(bis(4-(5-(4-(hexyloxy)phenyl)thiophen-2-yl)phenyl)amino)phenyl)-4,4-didodecyl-4H-cyclopenta[1,2-b:5,4-b’]dithiophen-2-yl)methylene)-4-oxo-2-thioxotetrahydrothiophen-3-yl)acetic acid (labeled as CPTD-R) and (E)-2-(5-((5-(7-(4-(bis(4-(5-(4-(hexyloxy)phenyl)thiophen-2-yl)phenyl)amino)phenyl)benzo[c] [1,2,5]thiadiazol-4-yl)thiophen-2-yl)methylene)-4-oxo-2-thioxotetrahydrothiophen-3-yl)acetic acid (labeled as BTD-R) featuring with 2-(4-(hexyloxy) phenyl) thiophene extended donor, and EDOT, CPDT, and BTD-thiophene π bridge.
The dyes contain a rhodanine-3-acetic acid as anchoring group and triphenyl amine as the donor centrum.
All molecules feature absorption in a rather broad range, between 350 and 650 nm, which is a typical characteristic of the π-conjugated donor-acceptor type chemical architecture.
The longer wavelength absorption band is mainly due to the π-π* charge transfer transitions from the donor to the cyanoacrylic acid acceptor of the dye molecule.
The studies showed that, insertion of an alkyne moiety renders flexibility between the donor carbazole and acceptor BODIPY core, which is beneficial for light harvesting.
Electron rich carbazole ring acts as very good electron donor and its derivatives exhibit photorefractive and hole-trasnport properties; thus they are polupar constituents of electroluminescent materials.
Incorporation of the extra acceptor in between the donor moiety and π-conjugating unit decreases the HOMO-LUMO energy gap, and as a result, these BODIPYs can show an efficient photoinduced electron transfer from the donor to the BODIPY acceptor unit; which is linked to the anchor group at the opposite end (Mao et al., 2017).
The N-alkyl carbazole ring served as donor and BODIPY core linked to cyanoacetic acid was the acceptor unit (Liao et al., 2017b).
Thus, linking of C60 to the carbazole substiuted BODIPY can be useful to effectually populate the triplet excited state of the C60, which in turn can transfer the energy to perylene acceptor.
On increasing the number of thiophene linkers, the effect of carbazole donor on the BODIPY acceptor was diminished; the quenched emission was attributed to the stronger push-pull effect for systems with elongated conjugation framework.
reported donor-acceptor systems of alpha-styryl BODIPYs 63 and 64 (Chart 4) having N-alkylcarbazole and/or cyanuric chloride as linker group (Su et al., 2014b).
The introduction of thiophene linkers between the donor and BODIPY core, extended the π conjugation of the entire system; which was indicated by the noticeable bathochromic shifts in absorption and emission of 69 (673, 696 nm, respectively).
In BODIPYs 70 and 71 (Chart 7), the meso-substituent: 9-butyl-N,N-phenyl-7-(thiophen-2-yl)-9H-carbazol-2-amine acted as donor unit, which was linked to BODIPY core with the phenyl linker.
This dyad exhibited energy transfer efficiency from donor carbazole unit to the acceptor BODIPY core.
Due to increased conjugation with the electron donor meso-carbazole group, anodic shifts were observed in the redox potentials of all four BODIPYs 72–75 (Kesavan and Gupta, 2014).
prepared donor-acceptor type BODIPYs 95–97 (Chart 13) and studied photo-induced electron transfer process for these dyes (Strahan et al., 2019).
The electron rich carbazole donor group was attached at either beta- or meso-position of the BODIPYs to access intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) in the dyes 95–97 (Chart 13).
reported NIR emissive D–π-A polymers 112, where aza-BODIPY moiety acted as acceptor and electron rich carbazole group served as donor.
Combination of BODIPY unit with good electron rich donor moiety in the polymer chain can yield the copolymer with strong absorption profile in the visible-NIR region of the solar spectrum.
The optical band gap can be reduced in copolymers by linking donor and acceptor units; Thayumanavan et al.
have synthesized π-conjugated BODIPY copolymers 114 (Chart 18) having N-alkylcarbazole/dithienopyrrole/bithiophene/fluorene as donor moieties (Popere et al., 2012).
Such copolymers containing π-conjugated donor-acceptor units also show interesting charge transfer and/or energy transfer properties with enhanced absorption and fluorescence in the visible to red region.
Copolymer 116 showed broad and red shifted absorption and emission spectra along with the energy transfer from donor indolo[3,2,-b]-carbazole to the acceptor BODIPY unit.
The electronic properties of organic π-conjugated polymers can be fine-tuned by introducing electron donor and accepter moieties in the main chain; the resultant macromolecules are popular in OPV, solar cells, and OLEDs, etc.
Organic conjugated copolymers are popular for their applications in OLEDs and solar cells due to low cost and light weight; and their electronic properties can be fine-tuned by altering the donor and acceptor units in the polymer backbone.
Such BODIPY based macromolecules can be synthesized by replacing the electron donor moieties with different aromatic heterocycles like fluorene, phenothiazine, bithiphene, and carbazole derivatives to enhance their photophysical and electrochemical properties for various applications (Ma et al., 2014).
have reported synthesis and optical studies of donor-acceptor type NIR aza-BODIPYs 118–121 (Chart 19), having N-phenylcarbazole or N-butylcarbazole at the 1,7-positions of the BODIPY core (Balsukuri et al., 2016a).
Also, Fluorescence studies of these molecules suggested effective energy transfer (up to 93%) from donor groups to the aza–BODIPY core.
This strategy validated that, simple substitution with energy-donor groups on aza–BODIPYs can induce large red shifts in their electronic spectra, and this approach can be applied to make novel NIR dyes.
The triad 126 displayed wide absorption in the visible-red region; along with the intramolecular energy transfer from donor units (BODIPY) and acceptor unit (aza-BODIPY).
have reported coumarin-carbazole conjugates and their BF2 complexes 137 and 138 (Chart 26); such D-π-A systems displayed intramolcular charge-transfer process from donor carbazole ring to the coumarin acceptor unit (Rajeshirke et al., 2018).
The strong fluorescence of the BF2 complexed coumarin unit in the red region was attributed to the attachment of carbazole donor group; these dyes can be potentially useful for biological applications (Rajeshirke et al., 2018).
However, their robust implementation is hampered by some issues, concerning the choice of the donor/acceptor materials, the device thermal/photo-stability, and, last but not least, their morphology.
The employ of compatibilizers has emerged as a promising, economically sustainable, and widely applicable approach for the donor/acceptor interface (D/A-I) optimization.
The limited employ of harmful chemicals is one of the possible approaches [28], as well as the utilization of ecofriendly biomaterials, such as bioinspired curcuminoid derivatives as molecular donors [29], or nanocellulose and nanochitin membranes in dye solar cells [30].
Although scientific reports describe geometries where three layers made of different materials are deposited one onto the other [43,44], current investigations mainly explore bi-layer OPVs, also called binary OPVs, where an electron donor (D) and an electron acceptor (A) material are deposited.
The photon-absorbing material is usually referred to as the donor, whereas the acceptor is the partner material collecting electrons [45].
Organic photovoltaics are made up of a combination of donor and acceptor organic molecules [62], nanostructured materials [63], and/or polymer chains [62,64].
Some relevant efforts have focused on the engineering of π-conjugated macromolecules by direct arylation strategies for BHJs [68], fluoro-functionalized quinoxaline-based polymers to be used as low-band gap acceptors [69], and finally perylene diimides as n-type organic molecules usable as non-fullerene acceptors in organic photovoltaics [70].
More specifically, suitable energy offsets (at least 0.3 eV) between donor and acceptor, and proper matching of their HOMO-LUMO energy levels, are required to ensure efficient exciton dissociation and minimize carrier recombination [79].
The photoactive layer is the key component of OSCs, in which there are generally two or three phases (the pure donor phase, the pure acceptor phase, and the D/A amorphous intermixed phase), depending on the degree of miscibility between donor and acceptor [84].
However, the production of a BHJ cannot be precisely ruled: After mixing donor and acceptor in a single solution and letting them phase-separate during film formation, a thermodynamically driven process emerges, where some isolated microphases (from both D- and A-materials) grow distantly from each other and surrounded by bulk mixture [87], thus making the photogenerated charge carriers unable to move to the external electrodes.
To be noticed, the D/A-I is not a physical object, meaning a specific material or a confined compartment of the device, but a precise morphological element produced neither by the donor nor by the acceptor layer, but by a complex sum of their interactions, which makes it very difficult to govern.
Beyond these effects, the third component can also play more specific roles within the blend, such as that of a second donor or acceptor, a co-solvent, an energy cascade linker, [102] a nucleating agent, and so on.
Structure-wise, most of the donor and acceptor materials employed in OPVs are aromatic systems; among the most studied D/A couples, the combination of poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) is representative of a considerable portion of the literature [88,106,107].
The aim of this review is to provide the reader with a satisfying overview of the most recent and representative approaches targeting at the generation of optimal D/A-I by means of a minority molecular/polymeric component, able to create an interface compatible with both the given donor and acceptor materials, hence to act as an effective compatibilizer.
Some of the most employed materials as donor or acceptor partner possess polymeric structures, such as P3HT [127], poly(p-phenylene vinylene) [128], or their derivatives, like block copolymer P3HT-b-PFTBTT [129].
Emphasizing the presence of thiophenes and fullerenes is important to underline the mechanism operated by CBs, that is to facilitate the formation of a compatibilized interface between the donor and acceptor phases through major interaction with one specific blend component.
Silyl groups are lately converted into SiOx-like residues, which efficiently limit hole diffusion into the acceptor layer and thereby depress the recombination of charge carriers, affording a PCE enhancement of about 50% over the devices without the CB-polymer.
Another strategy to control the D/A-I consists in functionalizing the P3HT-backbone of the polymeric CB and engineering the fragment destined to interact with the acceptor partner phase.
Pyridine residues are able to establish positive interactions with a variety of partner phases, ranging from fullerene acceptors (including bis-adduct fullerenes) [135] to inorganic materials, such as TiO2 nanorods [136].
In the paper from Xu and coworkers [143], they describe an OPV based on the classic architecture P3HT:PCBM, where a compatible low-bandgap polymer is added, PCBTDPP, in order to act as a “bridge” between the main donor and acceptor units, for an increased flow of charge carriers.
Benzothiophenes are a recurrent core for other compatibilizers, such as PBDB-T [145]; energy levels derived by optical spectroscopy suggest its employ as compatibilizer for dimalononitrile polymer DRCN5T and fullerene acceptor PCBM.
As discussed in the previous section, several compatibilizing polymers include thiophene rings in their backbone, or even entire P3HT portions, as long as polythiophenes are used as the donor materials (or, less frequently, the acceptor component), in order to maximize the interactions and favor morphological control over mixing interfaces.
This is the case for PFLAM, an electron-donor polymer based on the repetition of fluorene and triphenylamine units [152].
Some last words should be spent for the simple and commercial poly(2-vinylpyridine) (P2VP); Lee and colleagues employ this polymer as an additive for a series of OSCs based on benzodithiophene donors and a variety of acceptors (PCBM or naphthalene diimide-based polymer) [155].
From a structural point of view, TDGTPA comprises a central triazole core, 2,5-thienyl diketopyrrolo-pyrrole units as π-conjugated bridges and responsible for the interaction with the D/A materials, and peripheral tert-butyl-substituted triphenylamine acting as donor unit.
Their IT-4F contains indanedione-like fragments, as well as fused thiophene portions and a benzofluorene-like core, and closely resembles the main acceptor molecule ITIC; although the paper claims that their device should be considered as a ternary OSC, the relatively low percentage of added IT-4F (in the range of 9%), induces us to include the example in our review.
In a different study, Laventure and colleagues use DPEs for tuning the solid-state aggregation of a twisted N-annulated perylene diimide acceptor dimer [166].
AFM images support the hypothesis by revealing that photoactive layers prepared with no DPE present the molecular acceptor aggregated with fibrillar morphology, while the films processed with DPE show an evolution in the topography, from fibrillar to granular.
Recently, a little step further is revealed to the community, with Kim and collaborators working on a pentafluorobenzene-based diphenyl ether (F-DPE) [167], able to govern the D/A interfacial morphology via quadrupolar electrostatic interactions between donor and acceptor polymers.
In their work, solid additives based on indanedione scaffolds are efficiently employed for the compatibilization of IT-4F, a molecular acceptor comprising indanedione portions, fused thiophenes, and a fluorene-like structure within the molecular skeleton.
The reason behind this evidence is mainly related to the efficient dissolution of PCBM aggregates, promoting nanoscale phase separation [192], and resulting in a homogeneous distribution of the molecular acceptor within the photoactive blend [190].
Polymeric or molecular CBs offer a valuable approach to the creation and stabilization of an efficient donor/acceptor interface, thus contributing in a beneficial way to the overall electrical performance of OPV devices.
A simple and effective strategy is provided, which aims at boosting the performance of old fashion but still valid donor/acceptor materials, instead of pursuing the isolation of new materials with higher complexity and, in the end, higher production costs.
In the presence of organic substrates (as electron or hole acceptors in photoredox organic synthesis2), photon-induced excitons in perovskite can be efficiently dissociated and separated46.
For instance the half-lives of electron transfer to an organic electron-acceptor is reported to be ~65 ps, while charge recombination rate is reported about ~2 orders slower.
Oxygen is found to be the key reagent as the hydrogen atom acceptor that further induced the C–H activation on phenyl rings39,40.
Small-scale single-junction organic solar cells now achieve power conversion efficiencies over 10%.1−4 The best performance is achieved using a bulk heterojunction where an electron donor (usually a conjugated polymer) and an acceptor (usually a fullerene) are blended to obtain a large interfacial area for charge carrier generation.
This result is consistent with previous observations of efficient free carrier generation in fullerene-rich blends18,19 and much higher initial electron mobility in the fullerene than the hole mobility in the electron donors observed by means of THz spectroscopy.20 The amount of charge extracted from the blends with 80 and 90 wt % fullerene increases by about 30% with the increase of the negative bias between −1 and −4 V (Figure 3 c,d).
It is apparent that the power law functions cannot adequately describe the time dependences of the carrier mobilities at very low donor or acceptor concentrations.
PTB7:PC71BM blends prepared using the additive DIO have been shown to consist of interpenetrating polymer-rich and fullerene-rich domains of tens of nanometers in size, and large pure domains were no longer observed.10−12 These polymer- and fullerene-rich domains imply that there is a concentration gradient of donor and acceptor molecules between these domains.
In such a morphology, charge separation can be thermodynamically driven as the entropy increases with carrier motion from the lower to higher concentration of acceptor molecules.
Differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray/electron diffraction studies suggest that at low loadings (up to 5 wt %) the ternary component does not perturb crystallization of the donor:acceptor host blend.
These data, together with the crystallinity results, support the inference that the SF compounds are excluded to the donor:acceptor interface by crystallization of the host blend.
Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) have received tremendous attention as a potential low-cost large-area solar energy conversion technology, now routinely reaching over 10% solar power conversion efficiency (PCE) in laboratory-sized devices.1,2 Further development toward commercialization requires careful optimization of the optoelectronic properties as well as morphology of the photoactive donor:acceptor bulk heterojunction (BHJ).
In this respect, the use of a ternary BHJ (i.e., including a third active component in the donor:acceptor BHJ) has recently been established as a powerful approach to engineering high-efficiency OPVs.3−6 Blending multiple donor molecules to extend the absorption spectrum7−10 and using additives to control the morphology11 or doping,12 as well as a cascade strategy,13−17 exemplify the advantages of ternary systems.
This approach consists of including a tertiary molecule with intermediate energy levels ideally at the interface between the donor and acceptor domains so that free photogenerated holes and electrons accumulate on the donor and acceptor materials, respectively, and are spatially separated by the cascade molecule.
Several reports even show the possibility of enlarging the exciton harvesting distance through long-range energy transfer from the donor to the ternary material (a mechanism known as energy cascade), provided that the donor has a larger band gap.9,18,19 These two considerations lead to well-known design rules for the energetics of cascade molecules: highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels must be between those of the donor and acceptor while retaining a narrow absorption band gap.
Indeed, controlling the self-assembly of a ternary BHJ into the ideal cascade morphology—especially driving the cascade compound to the donor:acceptor interface—remains a key challenge.
have recently reported the formation of a multilength-scale ternary morphology attributed to the crystallization of P3HT, allowing the formation of two distinct donor phases working as subcells in parallel.23 Even though this system does not form an ideal cascade structure, the use of the host blend crystallization as a driving force for the self-assembly is a promising and simple strategy to engineer ternary morphology.
Specifically, using a noncrystalline “amorphous” cascade molecule as the ternary component and tuning the crystallinity of the electron donor and acceptor phases, thereby driving the ternary molecule to the interface, lead to a maximum 36% improvement in the PCE of a P3HT:PCBM solar cell.
The PDI aryl group yields the molecule coded here as SF-(PDI)4, which was recently reported as an electron acceptor for OPVs,25,26 and, alternatively, coupling DPP yields a novel molecule coded as SF-(DPP)4.
The melting enthalpy extracted from the DSC data allows estimation of the relative crystallinity of the donor or acceptor component in blends with the ternary component (Figure 2b).29 In the case of P3HT, the relative crystallinity only slightly decreases upon the addition of both additives and never drops below 95%, supporting the notion that SF-(DPP)4 and SF-(PDI)4 do not disrupt the crystallinity of P3HT and are excluded from the pristine crystalline P3HT domains.
While the melting transition behavior gives an indication of the mixing of the additives with the host donor and acceptor in the solid state, the DSC measurement conditions are significantly different from the conditions that occur during solution processing of the BHJ in a thin film.
3.71, 3.81, and 4.18 nm–1, respectively, which is in good agreement with the aforementioned DSC results and supports the view that the SF-(DPP)4 additive does not form a cocrystal with P3HT or PCBM, nor does it significantly affect the crystallinity of the pure donor and acceptor components.
Under the assumption that the amorphous additive is excluded from both the crystalline donor and acceptor phases at all loading concentrations, upon an increase in the loading and as long as both crystalline donor and acceptor phases remain, there reasonably must exist a loading limit above which a continuous SF-(DPP)4 layer would isolate some crystalline donor or acceptor domains.
This would break down the percolation pathways and favor the formation of a space-charge layer within the BHJ (because isolated donor or acceptor domains will accumulate free charges upon light illumination), which will deteriorate the transport.
While the morphological verification of this condition is complicated by the optimal donor:acceptor domain size present in P3HT:PCBM BHJs (ca.
In conclusion, we have combined the aspects of the exclusion of an amorphous ternary additive from a crystalline donor:acceptor blend for BHJ OPVs with the charge-cascade approach to establish a proof-of-concept.
There, the charge separation at interfaces between the phthalocyanine and an appropriate electron acceptor is a crucial process.
Often, fullerenes (C60) and their derivatives are used as acceptor materials.
In order to optimize the photoactive layer, the reduction in the donor content can lead to a reduction in the light absorption in the visible region and an increase in the AVT value of ST-OSCs [14,15,16].
By adjusting the ratio of donor to acceptor, the optimal ST-OSC prepared by Hu et al.
In this paper, we adopt a hybrid modification strategy of donor and acceptor weight ratio adjustment and simple optical coupling layer to simultaneously enhance both the PCE and the AVT.
We selected wide bandgap polymer poly[[4,8-bis [5-(2-ethylhexyl)-4-fluoro-2-thienyl]ben-zo [1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl]-2,5-thiophenediyl [5,7-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4,8-dioxo-4H,8H-benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c′]dithiophene-1,3-diyl]-2,5-thiophene diyl] (PM6) as the donor and narrow bandgap small molecule 2,20-((2Z,20Z)-((12,13-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-3,9-diundecyl-12,13-dihydro-[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-e]thieno-[2,”30′:4′,50]thieno [20,30:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2-g]thieno [20,30:4,5]thieno [3,2-b]indole-2,10-diyl)bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diyldene))dimalononitrile (Y6) as the acceptor.
The results show that the absorption of the active layer can be greatly improved by adjusting the ratio of the donor to the acceptor.
in PIDTDTQx:PC70BM-based OSCs, which may be due to the reduced LUMO-level of acceptors in the active layer [33].
This revealed that stronger aggregation of the Y6 acceptor appeared in the active layer as the PM6 content decreased, leading to reduced binding at the donor–acceptor interface [39].
A mixture of the low bandgap polymer thieno[3,4-b]thiophene/benzodithiophene (PTB7) and the acceptor [6,6]-phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) with an additive, 1,8-diiodoctane (DIO), was used as the photoactive layer in all the devices.
In general, VOC is controlled by the difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of a donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of an acceptor.
The transparent conducting oxide used was an indium tin oxide (ITO) patterned glass substrate with a sheet resistance of 10 Ω·cm–2 purchased from PsioTec Ltd. Donor polymer PTB7:Th and fullerene acceptor PC70BM were supplied by One-Material Inc. and Solenne BV, respectively.
The chemical structures of the PTB7-Th polymer donor and PC70BM fullerene acceptor with the energy level alignment of the devices are illustrated in Figure 1.
Regarding the absorption spectra of donor and acceptor materials, all devices display photo-response spectra with a broad range of 300–800 nm, which is mainly attributed to the absorption spectra of the PTB7-Th:PC70BM blend.27 Devices based on A-15R-ZnO showed the lowest maximum plateau photoresponse of 80%, while B- and D-based devices possessed 90% and C devices exhibited the highest plateau value of 95%.
The large donor–acceptor interface area in the bi-continuous BHJ facilitates the dissociation of photo-generated excitons into geminate carrier pairs; the built-in field further separates the geminate pairs and prevents geminate recombination56, resulting in a high short-circuit current density (Jsc) and a high FF of >0.6 in the device.
5a), which have the same device structure as the aforementioned P3HT:PCBM BHJ devices except that a different acceptor material is used, ICBA.
It is critical to avoid thermal annealing to minimize interlayer diffusion and obtain an abrupt donor–acceptor junction/interface between the P3HT and the PCBM48.
Spontaneous electron transfer has been reported from the donor P3HT to the acceptor PCBM, which results in an interface dipole with its positive end towards the P3HT layer and its negative end towards the PCBM layer50.
The resulting SP profiles of BHJ and PJ P3HT:PCBM devices show that a continuous potential drop across the entire BHJ-active layer is critical to facilitate carrier separation and collection for high Jsc and FF in device performance, whereas the donor–acceptor interface dipole efficiently promotes the dissociation of photo-generated excitons.
An overview of the different covalent bonding synthetic strategies of two electron acceptors leading to fullerene-perylenediimide (C60-PDI)-based systems, essentially dyads and triads, is presented, as well as their more important applications.
Such polymer which associates two complementary acceptors could find interesting applications in optoelectronics and in particular in organic solar cells.
The possibility to generate energy and/or electron transfer and long-lived charge-separated states using fullerenes as electron acceptors has rapidly shown their great advantages to be used in artificial photosynthetic models and organic molecular electronics including solar cells [2].
In particular, its electrochemical properties with six reversible single-electron reduction waves [8], combined with interesting photophysical properties, make C60 a unique electron acceptor to study photoinduced electron transfer processes.
The construction of BHJ devices consists in mixing together donor and acceptor materials to form a bicontinuous interpenetrating network and they have attracted much attention as they offer the possibility to achieve high power conversion efficiencies (PCE).
Thanks to their geometrical tridimensional architecture, good electron mobility, excellent electron properties, and good miscibility with conductive polymers, fullerene derivatives were considered for two decades as the spearhead of the acceptors for the development of OPVs [13].
To overcome these limitations, tremendous efforts have been directed toward the synthesis of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), especially small molecular acceptors (SMAs), and their development in related OSCs [15,16,17,18,19].
The conversion of solar energy into chemical energy is initiated by the light-harvesting of various chromophores, so-called antenna complexes, and the funneling of the produced exciton by energy transfer to a specific site, known as the reaction center, in which a subsequent electron transfer to an electron acceptor can occur [22,23].
Consequently, the incorporation of artificial light-harvesting antennas into molecular electron donor–acceptor systems was regarded as one of the most interesting strategies for the design of optoelectronic materials in photon-energy conversion.
In this area, the covalent bonding of a light-harvester, capable to act as an electron donor, to C60 has emerged as an active field of research to reach dyads in which intramolecular electronic interactions dominate generating a long-lived charge-separated state [24].
These PDI derivatives are of great interest to be studied as alternative electron acceptors to fullerenes in OPVs due to their tunable absorption in the visible range, inexpensive synthesis, and photochemical stability [27,28,29,30].
The corresponding solar cells should be designed considering that inside the photoactive layer the following combination of events could occur: (i) self-assembly into an interpenetrating nanoscopic network, (ii) an energy transfer from PDI towards fullerene C60 with the dye acting as a light-harvesting antenna, and (iii) a selective electron transfer between the p-type polymer donor such as poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) to the C60 unit.
Consequently, the C60 moiety appears to be the favored electron acceptor inside dyads Bc and Bd.
It was shown in solvents of different polarity that C60-PDI systems containing chlorine atoms (Ba,b) or tert-butylphenoxy groups (Bc,d) as bay substituents display an efficient singlet-singlet energy transfer from the PDI unit to C60, thus acting as light-harvesting antenna to the C60 playing the role of energy acceptor [46,48,49].
The potential use of these light-harvesting fullerenes in OSCs was estimated with their incorporation in BHJ using P3HT as the pi-conjugated donor polymer.
Moreover, the photovoltaic behavior was in agreement with electrochemical data which showed that PDI should be favored to play the role of acceptor instead of C60 in dyad Bc with a higher efficiency compared to the device using dyad Ba [50].
Photophysical studies showed a photoinduced energy transfer from 1PDI* to C60 which was followed by intersystem crossing from 1C60* to 3C60* in the case of PDICl4-C60 dyads that is, in particular, one order of magnitude faster in the cyclic dyad D compared to the linear one C. Using these intermediates and synthetic strategies, the electron donor silicon phthalocyanine (SiPc) was incorporated between the two electron acceptors of the multichromophoric PDI-SiPc-C60 triad Ea [53].
Additionally, the electron-donor tetrathiafulvalene (TTF) was added to the mixture to favor a template-controlled synthesis thanks to the promotion of a pre-arranged sandwich-like structure.
The introduction of pyrrolidinyl groups on the bay positions allows the PDI core to act as a donor and consequently undergo an electron transfer towards C60.
From this starting material, conjugated polyacetylenes Mf bearing PDI units and pendant C60 acceptors were synthesized by D. Zhu and coll [76].
A detailed comparative study showed interesting differences in the physical properties of the 1,6- and 1,7-regioisomers for which different orientations of the donor-acceptor moieties were highlighted.
Consequently, we designed the 3-formyl-5-hydroxybenzoic acid as a platform incorporating functional groups for the introduction of both C60 and PDI acceptors, and a free anchoring group that can be used for the attachment of an electron donor or otherwise a polymerizable group according to the intended application (Figure 2).
From the literature, with the aim of fabricating well-ordered nanostructured BHJ photovoltaic devices presenting a large donor/acceptor interface in an all-polymers strategy, M. Thelakkat and coll.
The PDI-Acr monomer was also used as a building block to prepare polymers and donor–acceptor diblock copolymers with PDI pendant groups for applications in organic field-effect transistors (OFETs) [103,104,105].
This synthetic approach appears very promising for the preparation of different triads since functionalities such as π-donors for example can be introduced on the phenolic anchor site in the last synthetic step.
The deep traps responsible for the nonradiative recombination in perovskite showed a complex nature, such as Frenkel defects (complexes consisting of a vacancy and an interstitial, e.g., VI+/Ii−)28 or donor–acceptor pairs.38,46 Furthermore, it is interesting to note that photo-induced hot carriers can be easily captured by shallow traps.47 However, the trapped carriers have a high probability of detrapping, which is not believed to influence the nonradiative recombination dynamics.
AbstractA strategy that employs the central‐core regiochemistry to develop two isomeric perylene diimide (PDI)‐based small molecular acceptors (SMAs), BPT‐Se and BPT‐Se1, is introduced, and the effect of the central‐core regiochemistry on the optical, electronic, charge‐transport, photovoltaic, and morphological properties of the molecules and their devices is investigated.
As one of the hottest research priorities at present, fullerene‐free organic solar cells (OSCs) have attracted much attention.1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 In comparison with fullerene acceptors, such as PC61BM ([6,6]‐phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid methyl ester) and ICBA (indene‐C60 bis‐adduct), nonfullerene small molecular acceptors (SMAs) outperform fullerene derivatives in terms of absorption, energy level tunability, morphological stability, and purification cost.10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 Significant progress in SMAs‐based OSCs has been made in the past few years.20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 The device based on SMAs achieved power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) over 13%, which surpassed the performance of PC61BM/PC71BM‐based devices.26, 27, 28, 29 Among these SMAs, fused‐ring electron acceptors (FREAs) and perylene diimide (PDI) derivatives have been extensively studied and are considered as the SMAs with the highest potential to replace fullerenes.30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40
PDI derivatives possess excellent electron mobility, strong electron affinity, outstanding chemical/thermal robustness, high absorption coefficients, and tunable absorption ranges.41, 42, 43 Despite of these merits, early generations of PDI derivatives show large conjugated planar structures, whose excessively strong aggregation and oversized domain size impede the development of device performance.44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 Since then, several strategies have been introduced to suppress the excessive aggregation propensity, including constructing twisted PDI dimers (or trimers) through connecting the α, β positions or the N‐position,43, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52 and linking PDI units through different functional groups such as triphenylamine,53, 54 tetraphenyl ethylene,35 and spirofluorene.51, 55 In order to further improve the efficiency of PDI‐based device, constructing fused‐ring PDI acceptors or changing the connection point of functional groups (or PDI) are currently the main strategies to optimize the structure of PDI‐based SMAs.56, 57, 58, 59
FNIC2 exhibits red‐shifted absorption spectra (42 nm) relative to that of FNIC1, which leads to the significantly enhanced J SC, thus a higher PCE.61 Li and co‐workers reported a side‐chain isomerization on ITIC by replacing 4‐hexylphenyl with 3‐hexylphenyl, the isomeric counterpart m‐ITIC‐based PSCs showed obviously enhanced PCEs due to the higher electron mobility and improved π–π stacking of m‐ITIC.64 From a design point of view, the regiochemistry of the central units could be an effective route for constructing efficient PDI‐based acceptors as well.
In this work, we report two isomeric PDI‐based acceptors with Se‐annulated PDIs as peripheral groups, namely, BPT‐Se and BPT‐Se1 (Scheme 1).
These results indicate that isomerization can serve as another important route to regulate the molecular properties of the PDI‐based acceptors and thus improve the photovoltaic performance of PDI‐based nonfullerene OSCs.
The absorption profiles of these SMAs are complementary to the strong absorption of PDBT‐T1, the highly efficient polymer donor we reported previously that absorbs strongly in the range of 500–700 nm.65 As shown in Figure S1 in the Supporting Information, the photoluminescence (PL) of both BPT‐Se and BPT‐Se1 are highly quenched by the donor PDBT‐T1, indicative of efficient charge transfer between PDBT‐T1 and the acceptors.
a) Absorption spectra of BPT‐Se and BPT‐Se1 in solution, and normalized absorption spectra of BPT, BPT‐S and PDBT‐T1 in film; b) cyclic voltammograms of BPT‐Se and BPT‐Se1; c) chemical structure of the donor PDBT‐T1; d) device configuration of the studied OSCs.
In order to evaluate the potential application of these two compounds, OSCs were fabricated with a conventional architecture of indium tin oxide/PEDOT:PSS (poly(3,4‐ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrene‐sulfonate))/PDBT‐T1:acceptors/ZrAcAc (zirconium acetylacetonate)/Al.
The optimal donor/acceptor weight ratio is 1:1 with a total concentration of 20 mg mL−1 in o‐dichlorobenzene, and the best annealing temperature is about at 100 °C (for 5 min).
To the best of our knowledge, the PCE of 9.54% is among the best results for efficient OSCs based on PDI acceptors.
The success of isomerization strategy thus paves the way toward high‐performance PDI‐based small molecule acceptors for nonfullerene OSCs.
2d).77,96 Taking OPVs as an example, Jsc can be related to the absorption of the donor material, which depends on the energy gap.
used a Lewis base indacenodithiophene-based organic acceptor (ITIC) to improve the morphology and optoelectronic properties of Cs3Sb2I9-based solar cells.
In this work, to directly compare the photovoltaic performance of solution- and vacuum-processed small-molecule bulk heterojunction (SMBHJ) solar cells, we employed a squaraine small molecular dye, 2,4-bis[4-(N,N-diisobutylamino)-2,6-dihydroxyphenyl] squaraine (DIBSQ), as an electron donor combined with fullerene acceptors to fabricate SMBHJ cells either from solution or vacuum deposition process.
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) cell with broad spectral absorbing photoactive layer has great potential to realize high power conversion efficiency (PCE) because the donor/acceptor system in this kind of device can efficiently overcome the strong exciton binding energy and thus achieve efficient charge generation (Lin et al., 2012; Chen et al., 2017b; Tang et al., 2017; Duan et al., 2018; Qi et al., 2018).
Recently, much effort has been dedicated to develop NIR absorbing polymer or small molecular donors combined with the fullerene acceptors to construct broad spectral absorbing BHJ layers (Li, 2012; Roncali et al., 2014; Chen et al., 2016b; Huang et al., 2016; Jiang et al., 2016; Du et al., 2018).
Squaraine (SQ) dye is a kind of NIR absorbing small molecular donor material due to its advantages of simple synthetic route, high photochemical and thermal stability and high absorption coefficient in the NIR region (Ajayaghosh, 2005; Sasabe et al., 2014; Chen et al., 2015, 2017b).
More recently, some NIR absorbing SQ donor materials with symmetric or asymmetrical molecular structures have been developed for high-performance BHJ cells by several groups: Silvestri et al.
firstly introduced the hydrazine end-capped symmetric SQ donor into the BHJ system combined with [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) acceptor and obtained a PCE of over 1% (Silvestri et al., 2008), and 2% of PCE was then obtained from the alkenyl-functionalized symmetric SQ and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) based BHJ cell (Bagnis et al., 2010).
Huang's group has synthesized a series of NIR absorbing asymmetric SQ donors combined with PC71BM acceptor to realize PCEs of over 6% (Wu et al., 2018).
The substrates were then transferred into a nitrogen-filled glove box, 60 nm-thick photoactive layers were fabricated by spin-coating DIBSQ:PC71BM solution (20 mg mL−1 in chloroform with donor:acceptor weight ratio of 1:5) on the MoO3 coated ITO surface at a rate of 4,000 revolutions per minute (rpm), then the DIBSQ:PC71BM blend films were thermally annealed at 70°C for 10 min.
The only difference is the fabrication processing and the corresponding acceptor materials used for the photoactive layers: the solution-processed DIBSQ:PC71BM SMBHJ cells were prepared by spin-coating the DIBSQ:PC71BM blend solution, while the vacuum-processed DIBSQ:C70 SMBHJ cells were fabricated by co-evaporating the DIBSQ and C70 in the vacuum condition.
The lower Voc in the vacuum-processed DIBSQ:C70 SMBHJ cells can be explained by the deeper LUMO level of C70 acceptor compared with that of PC71BM acceptor, as shown in Figure 1b.
Normally, the Voc of BHJs depends on the energy level difference between the HOMO of the donor (HOMO Donor) and LUMO of the acceptor (LUMO Acceptor) (Chen et al., 2017b), the deeper LUMO level of C70 leads to smaller |HOMO Donor| – |LUMO Acceptor| value and thus smaller Voc.
In summary, to directly compare the device performance of solution- and vacuum-processed SMBHJ solar cells, we employed a SQ dye, which can be deposited by using both of the solution and vacuum processing, as electron donor combined with fullerene as acceptor to construct solution- and vacuum-processed DIBSQ:Fullerene SMBHJ cells.
Research on organic photovoltaics (OPVs) exploded at the beginning of the millennium thanks to the use of fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors, coupled with conjugated polymers as donor materials [1,2,3].
proposed a new hybrid dyad DSSC photosensitizer using RGO and a donor–π–acceptor system [54].
Electrochemical measurements pointed out the better behavior as electron donor of the azulenocyanine, while pump probe experiments highlighted the electron transfer from the π-system to graphene upon photoexcitation.
Considerable progress has been achieved by both developing new materials for the active layers; for example, non-fullerenic acceptor systems [84] in organic photovoltaics (OPV) or the use of perovskites in hybrid cells (PSC) [85], and also by engineering the interfaces with the electrodes using layers that can act as HTMs (hole-transporting materials) or ETMs (electron-transporting materials) [86,87,88].
In 2017, Sartorio and coworkers [92] proposed a series of pyrenyl derivatives as suitable materials to tailor the interaction between SWCNTs and P3HT to be used for electron transfer in thin-film heterojunction, with P3HT as the donor system.
The covalent bond was confirmed by XPS, FTIR (showing a peak for Mn–O vibration) and Raman (with a red-shift of D and G bands due to the attached electron donor porphyrin).
The oxidized porphyrin moiety is then regenerated by a sacrificial donor (TEA = triethylamine).
Cystine was chosen as a sacrificial donor to simulate a biological protein environment.
The authors have shown that polystyrene domains are dispersed throughout the active layer, and attributed to PS a similar effect to that of DIO, by promoting the crystallization of the donor molecule.
APFO-3 was selected as a low energy gap polymer (Figure 1), being its low energy gap due to the alternating combination of electron-donor and electron-acceptor monomers, a strategy shown to be effective at extending light absorption into the infrared [11,12].
At this scale, for both cases with low amounts of PVP, the absence of color contrast in the phase images (Figure 2a,c) suggests a good combination of donor and acceptor.
[8], mentioned above, it is also found that the addition of polystyrene to the blend of PCBM and the low molecular weight donor improves the adhesion.
The cyclic voltammetry experiments and the quantum mechanical calculations suggest that phenothiazine is a stronger electron donor unit relative to phenothiazine-5-oxide and phenothiazine-5,5-dioxide, while the naphthalimide is a strong electron acceptor in all cases.
Perylenediimide (PDI),8 naphthalenediimide (NDI),9 and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)7 have been largely used as electron-acceptor units in new materials for optoelectronic and biochemical technologies because of their excellent chemical, thermal, and photostability.
More recently, phenothiazine (PTZ) was often used as the active component in push–pull chromophores because of its strong electron-donating capability.20 The PTZ unit is an electron-rich tricyclic heteroarene with nonplanar butterfly structure, characterized by the presence of powerful electron-donor sulfur and nitrogen atoms.21 In the literature, the photophysical properties and the HOMO–LUMO energy levels of PTZ derivatives have been easily modulated by substitutions at the nitrogen and the 3,7-positions of the phenothiazine unit.22,23 Our group has functionalized the 3,7-positions of the phenothiazine unit by using polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons of increasing complexity24 or strong acceptors such as benzothiadiazole25 or tetracyanobutadiene.26,27 In the literature, push–pull phenothiazine–naphthalimide systems have been successfully employed in some optoelectronic applications.28−38 However, the research on varying the oxidation state of the sulfur atom (sulfides, sulfoxides, and sulfones) in the thiazine ring of phenothiazine is still very limited.39−41 In this study, we have synthesized new naphthalimide and phenothiazine-based systems, in which we have changed the oxidation state of the sulfur atom on the thiazine ring to investigate its effect on the photonic properties of the obtained materials.
In the push–pull chromophores NPI-PTZ1 and NPI-PTZ4, phenothiazine was used as the donor, whereas in NPI-PTZ2, NPI-PTZ3, and NPI-PTZ5, phenothiazine 5-oxide and phenothiazine 5,5-dioxide were used as donor units.
The bathochromically shifted spectra observed for the oxygen-free relative to the oxygen-functionalized derivatives may indicate that phenothiazine is a stronger donor unit relative to phenothiazine 5-oxide and phenothiazine 5,5-dioxide.41
The mono and di-1,8-naphthalimide-based phenothiazine derivative NPI-PTZ1 and NPI-PTZ4 exhibit a single reversible reduction wave at −1.23 V corresponding to the 1,8-naphthalimide acceptor unit.
The oxygen-free compounds, NPI-PTZ1 and NPI-PTZ4, exhibit a single reversible oxidation wave at 0.78 and 0.83 V attributed to the phenothiazine strong donor.
In the case of NPI-PTZ1 and NPI-PTZ4, the HOMOs are localized over the phenothiazine strong donor unit while LUMOs are mainly concentrated on the naphthalimide acceptor.
In the case of the oxygen-functionalized systems, due to the presence of phenothiazine 5-oxide and phenothiazine 5,5-dioxide weaker donor units, the HOMOs are spread over the whole molecule while the LUMOs are mainly concentrated on the 1,8-naphthalimide unit, acting as a powerful acceptor.
In particular, Δμ is generally higher for the oxygen-free compared to the oxygen-functionalized systems (29.4, 26.9, and 26.1 D for NPI-PTZ1, NPI-PTZ2, and NPI-PTZ3, respectively), in line with the phenothiazine being a stronger electron donor relative to phenothiazine-5-oxide and phenothiazine-5,5-dioxide.
This spectral shape is similar to that reported in the literature for the phenothiazine radical cation absorption.46−48 These results confirm that the phenothiazine is a stronger electron donor unit relative to phenothiazine 5-oxide and phenothiazine 5,5-dioxide, so that an ICT is observed even in a nonpolar medium for the PTZ derivatives.
The same transient absorption signals could be produced by energy transfer in sensitization experiments where 2,2′-dithienyl ketone (DTK)54−56 was employed as the high-energy triplet donor and NPI-PTZ1/NPI-PTZ3 were employed as the triplet energy acceptors (see Figures S28–S30).
The quantum chemical simulations predicted HOMOs localized on the phenothiazine strong donor unit for the oxygen-free derivatives and delocalized over the whole molecular structure for the oxygen-functionalized derivatives, with the LUMOs being localized on the naphthalimide strong acceptor in all cases.
Hole transport materials with a high degree of tunable work functions that permit proper energy alignment with the donor materials’ deep valence bands are desirable for high-efficiency organic solar cells [62].
To explore the effect of fluorination on small molecule acceptors, we selected two non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) based bulk heterojunction (BHJ) films, involving PM6:Y6 and PM6:Y5 as model systems.
Designing new organic photoactive materials, including electron donor and acceptor materials, is one of the most effective strategies for improving the PCE of OPV cells.
Zou and coworkers synthesized the new fluorine-containing non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) material Y6 and mixed it with the fluorine-containing donor material PM6 as the active layer of OPV devices, yielding a high PCE of 15.7% [15].
However, although fluorinated donor or acceptor materials have great potential in the preparation of high-efficiency OPV devices, few studies have been reported on the impact of fluorination strategies on the charge transport performance of OPV materials, especially in OPV systems containing fluorination.
In this work, we selected PM6:Y5 and PM6:Y6 bulk heterojunction (BHJ) films to investigate the effect of end-group fluorination of small molecule acceptor materials on charge transport properties.
This work explains the effect of fluorination on the charge transport behavior of small molecule acceptors and enriches insights into charge carrier transport in OPV materials.
It can be observed that fluorine-containing materials exhibit the down-shifted lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy levels relative to the donors and acceptors without fluorination due to the strong ability to regulate the π-electron behaviors for fluorination [16,17,18].
The absorption spectra normalized to polymer donor and NFAs acceptor is shown in Figure 1d.
Compared to the Y6-based cells, the PM6:Y5 devices exhibit a lower average PCE of 6.83%, with a lower average JSC of 12.72 mA/cm−2, an average FF of 57.47%, and an average VOC of 0.934 V. It is worth noting that the larger JSC value of PM6:Y6-based devices can be partly attributed to the broadened and enhanced photo response of the Y6 acceptors.
Under the same donor condition, the Y6 systems tend to have higher electron and hole mobilities, which means fluorinated acceptors can be helpful for charge carriers’ transport in BHJ films.
The PM6:Y6 blend film show an obvious (010) peak in the OOP direction but no (010) signal in the IP direction, indicating that the donor and acceptor molecules prefer the face-on dominated π–π stacking [24].
In contrast, PM6:Y6 shows an increased Rq of 2.623 nm, indicating weakened donor–acceptor miscibility.
This means that the introduction of F atoms could boost acceptor aggregation.
Considering that electrons are transported only between acceptor molecules, ∆Gij equals zero and Equation (3) then becomes:(4)kij=VijhπλkBTexp[−λ4kBT]
In the BHJ film, electron carriers mainly transport in acceptor materials, and hole carriers typically transport donor materials [28,29].
Therefore, we calculated the electron transfer integrals between acceptor molecules.
Therefore, the results show that Y6 acceptor molecules have a faster electron transfer rate.
The radial distribution function (RDF) between acceptor molecules is shown in Figure S6.
The results show that fluorinated acceptor materials are more likely to form the “A-to-A” type J-aggregates and the π–π stacking can be enhanced, which is consistent with the results from the GIWAXS measurements.
The aggregation and intermolecular interactions of donor and acceptor molecules in the donor–acceptor nanostructured blending film have been explored by a combination of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations.
In summary, we investigated the effect of terminal group fluorination on electron transport in OPV acceptor materials of BHJ films by using both experimental and MD simulation methods.
These non-covalent interactions can provide more electron transfer channels between acceptors.
Recently, the advent of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) made it possible for organic solar cells (OSCs) to break the 10% efficiency barrier hardly attained by fullerene acceptors (FAs).
Here, we show the photostability of solar cells based on two workhorse acceptors, in both conventional and inverted structures, namely, ITIC (as NFA) and [70]PCBM (as FA), blended with either PBDB-T or PTB7-Th polymer.
The active layer under this configuration is an interconnecting network of donor (D) and acceptor (A) molecules, selected such that there is an appropriate LUMO offset in their energy levels, thus facilitating in part easy pathways for charge carrier extraction.
Previous works1−15 have been industrious in improving the efficiency of organic semiconductor devices, especially in the case of OSCs in tuning the donor material’s compatibility with the fullerene acceptors (FA), mostly [70]PCBM with an efficiency rarely reaching beyond 10%.12,13,16−18 However, because of the limited light absorption of the fullerene derivatives in the visible range of the solar spectrum, coupled with limitations in their energy level tunability, the performance of OSCs has hit a bottleneck.
These novel acceptors have boosted the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs up to above 14% in single junction30−32 and 17.3% for multijunction33 BHJ solar cells.
This is made possible because of the acclaimed properties of the non-fullerene acceptors (NFA), namely, their easy synthesis, strong absorption, tunable properties, and enhanced stability.34
Recently, there have been notable works on studying the stability of the best-performing donor polymers blended with [70]PCBM.5,35−43 With the advent of the NFAs currently outperforming FAs, the focus has been on the device efficiency and little is done to understand their device stability.29,31,44−46 It has been suggested that current NFAs, for example, ITIC and its derivatives, can be more thermally and photochemically stable than FAs,29,34 but there have been no to a few studies to ascertain this assumption.
In this work, the role of the acceptors in the photodegradation of their respective solar cells is explored under 1 sun illumination at a constant temperature by active cooling in an inert atmosphere in a glovebox, with both O2 and H2O levels kept below 0.1 ppm.
Thus, a comparative photostability study between a fullerene derivative acceptor, [70]PCBM, and the widely used non-fullerene small molecule acceptor, ITIC, is performed in blends with the PBDB-T polymer.
The choice of acceptors is purely based on the fact that they are commercially available and are workhorse materials in their own category.
The photoinduced degradation behaviors of the devices based on the two acceptors are studied via device physics with a combination of measurement techniques such as current–voltage characterization for monitoring changes in efficiency, charge transport, and recombination processes; UV–vis–NIR absorption for tracking changes in absorption; atomic force microscopy (AFM) for detecting changes in morphology; and transient photovoltage (TPV) together with extraction measurement for monitoring changes in (ratio of) rates of recombination and extraction.
With these techniques, the differences in performance, both in PCE and photostability, of the small molecule acceptor (NFA) and the fullerene derivative [70]PCBM (FA) are elucidated, and the main reasons behind their instability are revealed.
This is indicative of the role played by the donor and the acceptors in the degradation process.
Thus, different NFA acceptor molecules may show different behaviors.
The difference in decay curves is acceptor dependence and so could be linked to D:A compatibility.
In the case of devices with DIO, it could be due to the photoacidity of DIO and the formation of HI that could, in turn, react with the donor or the acceptor (or even both) materials as previously reported.
A closer look at the curves can only suggest the attenuation of the degradation (i) by the polymer structural modification (thus, changes in the backbone structure), (ii) by the acceptors, (iii) by the interaction/compatibility of both D and A, and/or (iv) by the reduction in mobility over time.
The first option cannot be the case as it would surely reflect in the same degradation pathway and strength because the same polymers are used with each of the acceptors.
This suggests that the acceptors play different roles in the acceleration or stabilization of the photodegradation.
Thus, the acceptors themselves could play the role as stabilizers, or perhaps it is their intricate compatibility with the donor materials that slows down the photodegradation.
Insights into changes in mobility (a factor exhibited by the intricate compatibility between the donor and acceptor materials) could be linked to the difference in device degradation.
The electron currents of pristine ITIC and [70]PCBM (not shown here, but shown in our previous work36) show no change before and after light exposure, suggesting no observable degradation of the acceptor materials.
The study was designed to assess the role, if any, of the fullerene derivative ([70]PCBM) and non-fullerene (ITIC) acceptors in the photostability of their respective solar cells with PBDB-T (and PTB7-Th).
Thus, there is still room for research into organic materials, be it acceptor or donor, that would be both efficient and stable.
All materials and solvents used in this work are commercially available: the fullerene acceptor, [70]PCBM, is acquired from Solenne BV, the polymers, PBDB-T, and PTB7-Th, and the non-fullerene acceptor, ITIC, are purchased from Solarmer Energy Inc., while anhydrous chlorobenzene (CB) and diiodooctane (DIO) are obtained from Sigma-Aldrich Co. LLB.
For single carrier devices and solar cells, the pristine polymer (15 mg) and the blend of the polymer with the acceptor, either with [70]PCBM or with ITIC in a ratio of 1:1 with a total weight of 20 mg, are dissolved in 1 mL of anhydrous CB.
The devices are finished by thermal evaporation of the top contacts with EO devices having the following structure Al/Blend/LiF/Al and HO devices having the following structure Cr/Au/PBDB-T, pristine acceptor, or Blend/Pd/Au.
Finally, films of PBDB-T, pristine acceptor, [70]PCBM, or ITIC and blends are fabricated by spin-coating on glass substrates for UV–vis absorption and AFM measurements.
ABSTRACTIn this research article, the new donor–acceptor (D–A) monomers developed using 4-methoxy-9-methyl-9 H-carbazole (MMCB) as electron donors and various electron acceptors.
To dissect the relationship between the molecular and optoelectronic structures, the impacts of specific acceptors on the geometry of molecules and optoelectronic properties of these D–A monomers were discussed.
In the state-of-the-art bulk heterojunction (BHJ) [4], the active layer of the OPV module consists of a compound from electron-donor and electron-acceptor materials.
As a consequence, the charge transfers between the donor (D) to accepter (A) units are intramolecular [10].
Several essential procedures in OPV cells are necessary to optimize light absorption to generate excitons in the active layer and the dissociation of excitons in the donor/acceptor interface (D/A) to generate the free carriers.
The HOMO energy level of a donor polymer must first be reduced to obtain a sizeable open-circuit voltage (VOC).
The LUMO energy level of the donor should be at least 0.3 eV above the acceptor LUMO (PCBM) level [11] to ensure a quantitative separation of charge at the D/A interface.
In contrast, the HOMO energy from the donor is proportional to the open circulating voltage of the electron acceptor relative to LUMO, and the offset between the donor luminaire and the acceptor permits separation of charging on a donor/acceptor interface leading to the photocurrent [13].
The optimal LUMO donor (or HOMO) energy level should be between −4.0 and −3.7 eV, respectively [15].
In this sense, D–A copolymers are commonly used to synthesize new polymers with a narrow-band gap donor based on the combination of the donor (D) and acceptor (A) [16,17].
The past 25 years saw an odyssey in growing elite donors and acceptors, where donor and acceptors units are individually constituted by electron-rich and inadequate electron member companies, the advanced PCE leaps have been achieved for small atom donors [18].
PSCs have been performed using fullerene and not-fullerene acceptors on complex layers of mass heterojunction (BHJ) at 10–13% [19].
Carbazole (CB)-based donors are appealing for accompanying purposes as photoconductors or charging materials: CB structured generally stable revolutionary cations effectively.
This study design of polymer monomers D–A using methyl and methoxy groups substituted at positions 9 and 4 in CB as a donor and various aceptors.
The acceptors groups are benzо[с] [1,2,6] оxаdiаzоle (BСО); benzо[с] [1,2,6] thiаdiаzоle (BСT); benzо[с] [1,2,6] selenаdiаzоle (BСS) [1,2,6];оxаdiаzоlо[3,4-с]рyridine (ОСР) [1,2,6]; thiаdiаzоlо [3,4-с]рyridine (TСР) [1,2,6]; selenаdiаzоlо [3,4-с]рyridine (SСР) [1,2,6]; оxаdiаzоlо[3,4-d]рyridаzine (ОDР) [1,2,6]; thiаdiаzоlо[3,4-d]рyridаzine (TDР) аnd [1,2,6]selenаdiаzоlо[3,4-d]рyridаzine (SDР) (Scheme 1).
The D–A monomers design the same CB molecule acceptors during our previous work [38].
Scheme 1.Building units as donor/acceptor moieties
Building units as donor/acceptor moieties
The distance between donor and acceptor is DBL and the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) and the distortion of the co-planarity between the donor and the accepter is the dihedral angles are presented in Table 1.
Because of all monomers, dihedral angles between donor and acceptors are from 130° to 160° in the gas and solvent phase.
Compared to our previous research, the unsubstituted CB [38] dihedral angles are more significant than MMCB donors.
The dipole moments of the donor molecule were indicated to significantly influence the self-recovery of the molecular film and subsequent morphology.
It should be noted that dipole and quadrupoles are secondary estimates of CB-TDP and copolymer monomers, which indicate that the sulfur (S) and selenium (Se) atoms are more rooted electron acceptor than those of CB copolymer monomers.
Genarally the ideal donor HOMO energy levels should be between −5.2 and− 5.8 eV, the LUMO energy level should be between −3.7 and−4.0 eV are good condidates for organic solar cells.
In the meantime or, perhaps, in the final analysis, the PSC open-circuit (VOC) voltage is bound by the contrast between the donor’s HOMO and the accepter’s LUMO [53].
The donor HOMO energy and acceptor LUMO energies taking from our previous work [38].
The nine HOMOs show standard fragrant attributes, the delocalisation of the entire part of molecule, which is mainly restricted to the donor areas.
Therefore, the photo-excited electron will be sent to the acceptor gathering during the incitement series from the development of a donor.
Again, we note that the collection of acceptors from all mixtures makes a significant contribution to LUMOs, develop the skills of electron infusion and consequently increases the short output thickness of JSC current.
In the same vein, low LUMOs of α-forming mixtures and high LUMOs of the electron acceptor (PC71BM, PC60BM) increase the VOC estimate, contributing to the increased sun-based cell efficacy.
The CB-TDP and Copolymer Monomers’ quadruple second estimates are larger than those of CB monomers and are more grounded electron acceptors for sulphur (S) iota and selenium (Se).
The findings also give the ability to influence the inborn optoelectronic properties of the comparative monomers by various acceptors, such as ODP, TDP, and SDP.
Finally, the results show how electronic properties can be tuned to a replacement with a few acceptors, recommending optoelectronic applications such as BHJ in solar cells of CB-ODP, CB-TDP and CB-SDP compounds.
At the interface between these two semiconductors (heterointerface), electron transfer occurs from the electron donor to the electron acceptor with near unity efficiency (provided that the LUMO offset and/or HOMO offset is favourable) [8], while the hole remains in the hole conducting moiety, thus structurally separating the electron and hole.
Hole transfer from the electron acceptor into the electron donor may also occur and also yields exciton dissociation.
Since energy must be conserved, the acceptor molecule must have energy states available such that the gain in energy of the acceptor is equal to the loss in energy of the donor molecule.
The available energy states can be determined experimentally by measuring the absorption spectrum and fluorescence spectrum of the acceptor and donor species.
where τ0 is the fluorescence lifetime of the exciton, r is the distance between donor and acceptor, and R0 is the Förster radius, which is the critical distance at which the fluorescence probability is equal to the energy transfer probability and is given by
where κ is the orientation factor between donor and acceptor, ϕ is the fluorescence quantum yield, n is the refractive index, NA is Avogadro’s number, ν is the frequency of light, ɛ is the peak-normalised fluorescence spectrum of the donor and F is the absorption spectrum of the acceptor.
The integral is referred to as the overlap integral and quantifies the dipole-dipole interaction of donor and acceptor.
Equations (2) and (3) have been successfully used in many organic semiconductors [20] where the donor and acceptor molecules can be approximated by point dipoles, which is largely valid for hopping within a single material.
Energy transfer is usually much faster than intramolecular vibrational relaxation, which means that the donor and acceptor sites are “frozen” while energy transfer occurs [51].
Exciton transport in organic semiconductors can be modelled as a hopping process in which charges move from donor to acceptor governed by the availability of empty states in the density-of-states (DOS), which is often described by a Gaussian distribution with standard deviation, σ[57–59].
where the f-function is the Boltzmann factor and considers the relative energy state differences of donor and acceptor according to the relationship:
where Ei and Ej is the energy of the donor and acceptor respectively.
However, when a triplet exciton is located near a phosphorescent organometallic donor, it has been shown it may undergo Förster transfer [78].
Triplet excitons are passed on to a second species (referred to as the emitter [87] or acceptor/annihilator), where two triplet excitons annihilate to form a singlet exciton with more energy than the original singlet exciton generated in the sensitizer.
The rate of energy transfer, kET, not only depends on the overlap integral, but also on the donor-acceptor orientation (Equation (3)), which in turn depends on morphology and may be influenced by annealing treatments and moiety fraction [96].
where p(t) and a(t) are the photoluminescence of the donor in the absence and presence of the acceptor respectively.
A donor-acceptor system for energy transfer includes all the complexities of exciton transport in a homogenous layer plus the added step of energy transfer between two different materials, which makes optimisation a non-trivial task.
One way of assessing the impact of intra-species transport in the donor in relation to the final donor-acceptor transition step (ET4 in Figure 6) is by measuring time dependent photoluminescence and fitting a stretched-exponential of the form
For single step three dimensional FRET, α = 1/2, for single step two-dimensional FRET α = 1/3 [98] and for diffusive transport only (followed by a final nearest neighbour hop into the acceptor) α = 1 for a simple random walk.
In general, for intermolecular transfer between different species the point-dipole approximation should be used with caution at very short donor-acceptor distances and more advanced quantum chemical calculations may be required in certain cases [45].
Consequently, the combination of a narrow low band gap polymer with common electron acceptors (i.e., fullerene derivatives) typically results in poor absorption in the 400–700 nm wavelength region.
Simultaneous electron and hole transfer to the electron acceptor and donor materials respectively is only possible if the dye is in contact with both materials.
In this case, direct electron transfer drives exciton dissociation and is often less efficient than ultrafast hole transfer from PCBM to the donor.
As such, depending on the overlap of photoluminescence and absorption spectra of the photoactive constituents, energy transfer from the donor to the acceptor may or may not be faster than exciton diffusion within the donor followed by direct electron transfer.
A direct result of the two-step process is that the band gap of the donor and the acceptor must be similar to maximise emission and absorption spectra overlap and thus enhance FRET.
Since fullerenes are commonly used as the electron acceptor, the optimum LUMO level of the donor is constrained by the fullerene LUMO.
At the same time, the HOMO of the donor needs to align with the anode to facilitate hole extraction, while a small band gap is desired to maximise light absorption.
The energy associated with CT states has been assessed using electroluminescence [37] and absorption measurements (photothermal deflection spectroscopy) [123] and is shown to directly correspond to the HOMOdonor-LUMOacceptor energy gap, as expected.
This effect has been observed experimentally for many organic materials [142] including derivatives of fullerene and porphyrin electron donor [143].
A direct consequence of the inverted region is that geminate (and bimolecular) recombination can be suppressed by employing material systems with a large HOMOdonor-LUMOacceptor gap [31].
Since the HOMOdonor-LUMOacceptor gap is larger than the charge transfer energy offsets, charge recombination essentially occurs in the “inverted” energy region, while charge hopping occurs in the “normal” region.
The band gap and LUMO offset are taken as important variables, which directly relate to the HOMOdonor-LUMOacceptor gap.
Simultaneous increased light absorption and reduced recombination have been experimentally observed in OPV devices with a cascade donor structure [149].
The cascade devices were shown to perform better than the corresponding single donor reference devices.
Organic photovoltaic devices (OPVs) employing donor-acceptor bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure are considered promising next generation solar cells due to their advantages over traditional counterparts, including lower costs, increased flexibility, lighter weight plus solution processed roll to roll (R2R) production compatibility123.
PCDTBT, as donor polymer, is expected to yield high efficiency and photo-current generation due to its faster charge carrier generation capability and different recombination dynamics as compared to P3HT262728.
To fabricate the photo- active layer, both PCDTBT (donor) and PC71BM (acceptor) were dissolved in chloroform at the concentration of 10 mg/ml by vigorous stirring overnight and further mixed at the ratio of 1: 4, respectively.
Further, these excitons dissociate into the electrons in the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and holes in the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), at the donor-acceptor interface.
Therefore, the HOMO level of the donor polymer should match well with the work-function of HTL to facilitate the transportation of holes through HTLs to the anode19.
The device with PCDTBT as donor polymer provides better holes extraction since energy levels from PCDTBT/PEDOT:PSS/GO/ITO provide good ascending steps for the holes to hop.
A well matched work function of GO/PEDOT:PSS = 4.9 eV/5.1 eV with that of PCDTBT (5.3 eV) donor material facilitates the hole transportation to ITO.
This is the case for solution-processed organic donor–acceptor blends called bulk heterojunctions (BHJ), for polycrystalline direct bandgap semiconductors such as CdTe, CuInxGa(1−x)Se2 and Cu2ZnSnS4 and for hybrid organic–inorganic perovskite solar cells.
Time-resolved EFM (trEFM) has been used to map photoinduced charging rates (i.e., the time needed to reach an electrostatic equilibrium after illumination) in organic donor–acceptor blends with sub-ms time resolution [1].
When investigating organic donor–acceptor (D–A) blends, both capacitive effects and photocharging dynamics shall be taken into account, which renders the interpretation of IM-KPFM data even more difficult.
In “real” samples trapped carriers and electrostatic dipoles at the donor–acceptor interfaces contribute to the global electrostatic landscape probed by KPFM in the dark state [20].
In organic BHJ solar cells, electron donor and acceptor materials are processed to form two interpenetrated networks phase-segregated at the 10 nm scale.
(a) Top: chemical structures of PTB7 (electron donor, D) and PC71BM (electron acceptor, A).
Bottom: illustration of the type-II energy level alignment between the electron donor and the electron acceptor.
Solution-processed organic solar cells [25] rely on the combination of electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) π-conjugated polymers and/or molecules that display a type-II energy offset between their highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels.
Here, the low-bandgap polymer PTB7 was used as the donor and the fullerene derivative PC71BM as the acceptor.
In the BHJ configuration [26], the D and A materials should form two interpenetrated networks phase-segregated at the 10 nm scale, to maximize the donor–acceptor interfacial area where the excitons are dissociated and to overcome the short-exciton diffusion length.
For instance, they can feature a three-component organization in two (relatively) “pure” phases (i.e., donor-enriched and acceptor-enriched sub-networks), and a third one where donor and acceptor molecules are finely intermixed at the sub-10 nm scale [27].
The nc-AFM topographic images (Figure 7a) display a rather uniform contrast indicating that the donor and acceptor species have been finely mixed.
Obviously, if the blend composition or the morphology of the donor and acceptor sub-networks vary, the interface dipoles fluctuate as well (in direction and magnitude).
1 : 1, 1.5 : 1 and 2 : 1 and the best power conversion efficiency was observed for the binary film of P3:P3HT blend device in a 1 : 1 weight ratio which reached up to 1.96% with a Voc of 0.55 V, Jsc of 10.12 mA cm−2 and FF of 34.63% which is among the highest reported for BHJ solar cells with N-substituted PDI based acceptors.Newly designed N-substituted perylene diimide based acceptor copolymers have been characterized and tested for organic solar cells with P3HT in different weight ratios.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) are a promising alternative to the inorganic silicon based devices due to their low cost, ease of fabrication, flexibility and light weight.1,2 During the past decade, fullerene and its derivatives have been extensively investigated as electron acceptors for OSCs, PC61BM and PC71BM in particular.3 However, these acceptors suffer from some drawbacks such as limited light absorption in the visible region, high cost, instability of surface morphology in the blend films, difficulty in synthesis and purification and limited energy level tunability.4,5 To overcome these challenges, there has been lot of reports in the recent literature on the design of non-fullerene based acceptors6,7 with broader absorption, readily tunable energy levels, and ease of synthesis and purification.8,9 Solution processable, non-fullerene bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) > 8% have recently been reported which indicate the potential of non-fullerene electron acceptors.10,11
Perylene diimides (PDIs) are the most widely studied class of non-fullerene acceptors in OSCs12,13 because of their large electron mobility with probable generation of a highly conducting path along their π–π stacking axis due to their strong tendency to form ordered aggregates and low-lying frontier energy levels.14 PDIs are also advantageous due to their high absorption ability, high photochemical and optical stability, reversible redox properties, ease of synthetic modification and excellent environmental/thermal stability.15–17 PDI based molecules and polymers have progressively attracted significant attention in applications such as light-emitting diodes,18 sensors,19 organic field-effect transistors,20,21 light-harvesting arrays,22 molecular wires,23 photochromic materials24 and photovoltaic cells.25,26 Further, in PDI unit, the optical, electrochemical and charge transport properties can be tailored by introduction of appropriate substituents at the N-positions26,27 or at the perylene bay positions,28,29 offering wider scope for tuning the optical as well as processing properties.30
Janssen and co-workers were the first to demonstrate the use of N-substituted PDI based polymers in OSCs.31 Mikroyannidis et al.32 synthesized alternating phenylenevinylene copolymer with PDI moiety along the backbone by Heck coupling reaction for use as an acceptor in OSCs.
A blend device consisting of the above acceptor copolymer and a poly(3-phenyl hydrazonethiophene) donor resulted in a PCE of 1.67% that further increased to 2.32% by thermal treatment and reported one of the best efficiency for N-substituted PDI polymers.
In 2011, Z. Liang et al.33 developed a variety of photo stable polymers containing poly(ethylene glycol) or poly(propylene glycol) segments in the N-substituted PDI backbone and used as acceptor in a PSC with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as donor.
W. Fu et al.,34 Jin et al.35 and Koyuncu et al.36 have recently demonstrated the use of PDI based polymers as acceptor material in BHJ solar cells with moderate power conversion efficiency.
In our efforts to develop PDI based acceptors for use in BHJ solar cells, we herein describe the synthesis of a novel N-substituted PDI based monomer and its alternating donor and acceptor type copolymers containing flourene, carbazole and thiophene–benzothiadiazole–thiophene moieties with tunable electrochemical and optical properties and examine their performances in OSCs.
These absorption bands located at lower wavelength can be assigned to π–π* transitions from the conjugated backbones localized on the donor or acceptor, whereas the higher wavelength absorption band can be assigned to intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) transitions inherent to the D–A system.51 While comparing to film spectra with solution, the absorption maxima were red shifted with broadened area owing to strong inter-chain interaction and π–π stacking in the solid state which are beneficial for charge transport.52 The solution and film spectra of polymers have almost the same absorption maxima in the range of 502 to 520 nm and are very close to the monomer M1 due to the presence of the same PDI unit in all the polymers.
P3HT was used as the donor and N-substituted PDI based polymers P1–P3 as the acceptor to design the photoactive layers.
Even though the device performances of the N-substituted PDI based polymers were low, these are comparable to some of the previously reported for the BHJ photovoltaic devices based on a blend of tris(thienylenevinylene)-substituted polythiophene and poly[perylene diimide-alt-bis(dithienothiophene)].63 The PCEs of these devices are less than that reported for blend device of alternating phenylenevinylene copolymer with PDI unit and a poly(3-phenylhydrazonethiophene) donor, which resulted a PCE of 2.32%.
The photoelectrochemical properties of a thin film of poly[2-methoxy-5-(3′,7′-dimethyloctyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] (MDMO-PPV), which is a model PPV-based donor organic semiconductor, was studied in detail.23 Recently, the doping effect on the optical properties of MDMO-PPV was reported.24 Although its applicability in photovoltaic devices was already shown, no detailed photoelectrochemical characterization of this material was done up to now.
A high Φ minimizes the energy level mismatch among the PEDOT:PSS anodes, hole transporting layers (HTLs), and electron donors of photo-active layer of OSCs for an efficient charge transport.
Polymeric donor materials in blends with solution-processable fullerenes have produced the highest efficiency organic photovoltaic bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices to date [13–14].
Recently, a donor–acceptor small molecule with a cyanopyridone moiety as the acceptor motif and displaying moderate photovoltaic efficiency in a BHJ device with a fullerene was reported [20].
These values are similar to those reported for compound 1 [20] and are suitable for charge transfer to take place to fullerene-based electron acceptors, such as PC61BM.
The donor and acceptor materials in small molecule OPV devices can be fabricated in vacuum-deposited, multilayer, crystalline thin films, or spin-coated together to form blended bulk heterojunction (BHJ) films.
Some of the excitons then diffuse through the donor (or, in some cases, the acceptor) material and reach the donor acceptor material (exciton diffusion).
Once the excitons reach the donor acceptor interface, the potential energy difference of the electronic states of the two materials provides a driving force for the electrons in the excitons of the donor material to transfer to the acceptor material (charge separation).
(c) An energy schematic of the donor-acceptor OPV motif.
An electron donor forms the first layer and is photoexcited to create an exciton that subsequently diffuses to the bilayer junction, where the electron can hop to the electron acceptor, which makes up the second layer in the device.
Although the molecular bilayer p/n junction has established potential for the OPV effect in solar cell applications, the PCE at that time was still below 1% because this device architecture was not optimized for interfacial CS and interactions between the electron donor and acceptor.
In order to have effective CS and charge carrier generation, the prerequisite for photon-to-electron/hole conversion is for excitons to migrate quickly to the donor:acceptor junction before they decay back to the ground state.
Therefore, the distance between the donor and acceptor materials needs to be relatively small, or the diffusion length of the excitons needs to be enhanced.
By depositing the donor and acceptor materials simultaneously, the average segregated domain size of the donor and acceptor materials is reduced, making the distance for the exciton travelling to the donor/acceptor boundary sufficiently short and CS efficiencies higher compared to the molecular bilayer devices.
These relatively large, planar, conjugated molecules have intense absorption bands in the UV-vis region, and are capable of donating electrons from their excited states to the LUMO of the PER acceptor material.
The first single heterojunction solar cells were made of Pc as the electron donor layer and had a PCE of <1%.
One breakthrough was the addition of an ‘electron blocking layer’ between the acceptor and the cathode (15), preventing organic film damage during the evaporation of the cathode layer and directing the excitons’ diffusion to the junction, which in turn increases the CS.
The second breakthrough, which is currently where the main thrust of organic electronic research still lies, is in increasing the interaction area or junction area between the donor and acceptor materials.
There have been several methods employed to achieve this goal, such as the co-depositing of donor and acceptor materials (16, 17) and the production of ‘graded heterojunction’ materials by systematically changing the ratio of the donor and acceptor materials being deposited onto the substrate (18).
The delicate interplay of film crystallinity and donor:acceptor interface optimization has been the subject of many investigations and is still undergoing improvements as our understanding of film morphology increases.
3) with the solar spectrum and the energy level alignment between the donor and acceptor materials for the CS.
Chemical synthesis, as well as film fabrication engineering, can also optimize the alignment of the Pc HOMO and LUMO levels with respect to the acceptor materials.
The VOC of the sub-Pc device is larger when prepared with conventional solar cell acceptor materials, and the PCE is consequently higher compared to the corresponding Pc-based devices.
There are three main reasons why squaraines were initially investigated as potential electron donors in organic solar cell devices (26, 27).
These molecules have an internal donor-acceptor character, which in turn lowers the bandgap of the material.
The donor-acceptor character of these molecules can also enhance the CS of the excitons in these devices.
Perylene derivatives: systematically controlled acceptor materials
Small molecule acceptor materials are typically used in both vapor deposited and spin cast devices.
Two acceptor materials have been used extensively in the past, PER and buckminsterfullerene derivatives, which are highlighted below.
Although other materials are being investigated as electron acceptors in organic films, their properties lie outside the scope of this review.
The first electron acceptor material utilized in OPVs was a PER derivative (see Fig.
These were the first set of molecules to show the n-type electronic character necessary for electron acceptor materials.
In particular, one would like to tailor the materials so that the controlled self-assembly via intermolecular interactions can be achieved to form dual continuous channels respectively for the donor and acceptor for the carrier transport while the donor and acceptor are covalently linked (32–36).
Perylene is an ideal electron acceptor in this application.
Buckminsterfullerene derivatives: more ideal electron acceptor materials
The reported exciton diffusion length of the acceptor material C60 is substantially longer compared to PER derivatives such as PTCBI, which is attributed to the rapid intersystem crossing of the singlet excited state to the long-lived triplet excited state allowing ample time for its diffusion (31).
In single heterojunction devices with narrow absorption bands, the exciton absorption in the acceptor material can significantly affect the overall solar cell efficiency.
The initial experiments on solar cell devices used polymers as the active donor material were initiated in 1993 (38).
The first fullerene derivative solar cells, which were used with polymer donor materials, had efficiencies lower than 0.1% (38).
This low efficiency was attributed to the poor donor-acceptor interface of the material.
The high solubility of this material led to the fabrication of the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) films, which enhance the interfacial interactions between the donor and the acceptor (2).
Therefore, the PCE in many solar cell devices has been enhanced by using C70 derivatives as the acceptor material.
Nevertheless, C60 is still often used as the acceptor material for comparative purposes or in devices where the donor material has a high extinction coefficient over the entire visible spectrum.
Oligothiophene derivatives: a new avenue in OPV donor material optimization
Promising results have recreated recent interest in the investigation of oligothiophene derivatives as a potential donor material in BHJ solar cells.
In particular, the addition of cyanovinylene moieties to the oligothiophene units creates donor:acceptor character within the oligomer, which in turn lowers the bandgap of the material.
These units act as electron acceptors while the oligothiophene acts as an electron donor, which puts these oligomers in the ‘push-pull chromophore’ category.
One cyano end unit does not significantly lower the LUMO level while three cyano units lower the bandgap and energy levels so far that the material can no longer act as a p-type electron donor and has actually been studied as an n-type electron acceptor in OPV applications.
Competition between exciton diffusion distance and active layer thickness for sufficient optical absorption necessitated the engineering of bulk heterojunction morphologies; but, in turn, this required a substantial effort first to functionalize the electron acceptor PCBM, and secondly to optimize the complicated morphology inherent in this device architecture.
The higher degree of processing abilities has made oligothiophenes and attractive candidate as donor materials in OPV devices.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) with fullerene-free acceptors have recently been in high demand in the solar cell market because OSCs are less expensive, more flexible, long-lasting, eco-friendly, and, most importantly, have better photovoltaic performance with a higher PCE.
The newly designed molecule DF2 exhibited the highest dipole moment (21.98 D), while DF3 displayed the minimum binding energy (0.34 eV) and the highest Voc value (1.37 V) with HOMOdonor–LUMOacceptor.
Fullerene-based OSCs were considered to be very efficient and have remained in the market for more than 20 years.7 Later on, some limitations were found in the fullerene-based OSCs, such as high price, lower energy tunability, low flexibility, poor chemical modifications, and decreased photostability.8 On the other hand, OSCs with fullerene-free acceptors have gained much attention of the world because they are highly compatible with polymer donor materials, energy tunable, less costly, transparent, and flexible in nature.9−13
It contained indeno[1,2-b]indole (IN) as an electron-rich central core around which two pi-linkers and two acceptor units are present.
Various strategies are available to improve the Voc, Jsc, FF, and PCE values of OSCs, such as modifying the donor or acceptor region or preparing a fine blend of donor and acceptor materials.
We designed five new molecules from the reference molecule R by introducing various EW end-capped units on its acceptor moieties.
By replacing the terminal units of the molecule R with five different acceptor moieties (A1–A5), we derived five new molecules that were named DF1–DF5 (Figure 1).
In the LUMOs of these molecules (DF3 and DF5), a very small electron density is present on the pi-linkers, but most of the electron density is present on the whole acceptor regions.
Both of these molecules contain a thiophene ring as their acceptor moiety.
The existence of a thiophene ring and the highly electron-withdrawing end-capped units increases the electron density of the molecules DF3 and DF5 on the acceptor region of their LUMOs (Figure 4).
This phenomenon illustrates the electron-withdrawing nature of the acceptor moieties.
Hence, a highly EW nature of the end-capped units of the acceptor moieties is very efficient for the proper flow of electron density from the D to the A region of the molecules.
Here, we realized that all of the engineered molecules DF1–DF5 have smaller Eg values than R. However, the engineered molecule DF5 exhibited the lowest value of Eg among all of the molecules due to the presence of the highly electron-withdrawing oxygen atom, chlorine atom, thiophene ring, and nitro groups as end-capped units on its acceptor regions.
It is clear from the figures of HOMO, LUMO, and PDOS that the electron density has been shifted from the donor to the acceptor regions in all of the molecules (R and DF1–DF5) due to the strongly EW nature of the end-capped units.
The peak along the left side of the graph represents the HOMO region of the donor, and the peak on the other side represents the LUMO of the acceptor.
In each graph, red, green, and blue lines are present, which symbolize the acceptor, donor, and pi-linkers, respectively.
Hence, enhancement in photovoltaic properties can be described on the basis of the electron density in the acceptor in the LUMO region.
Therefore, these end-capped units act as good acceptors due to their electron-withdrawing nature.
On the other hand, the blue color with the positive extreme (highest) electrostatic potential shows the nucleophilic nature of the central donor part.
Also, the other designed molecules exhibit a higher dipole moment as compared with the reference, but they show different behaviors due to their different acceptor groups, as shown in Figure 8, which displays a schematic sketch of the whole designed project.
Voc diagram of R and DF1–DF5 acceptors with the PTB7-Th donor.
We used PTB7-Th as the donor material for our research.
The Voc values for the molecules (R and DF1–DF5) can be calculated using the Scharber and colleagues’ equation34 given belowiiiThe difference in Voc results of molecules (R and DF1–DF5 with PTB7-Th donor) is given in the Figure 8.
To assess the TDM graphs, we divide R and the engineered molecules DF1–DF5 into three parts, including donor, pi-linker, and acceptor (D, P, and A, respectively).
The reason for choosing PTB7-Th is that it is one of the best and most suitable donor molecules for confirming whether a molecule is an acceptor or not.
Among all of the engineered molecules (DF1–DF5), we prepared a blend of acceptor DF5 with the donor polymer PTB7-Th due to the lowest Eg value, highest λmax value, and other important features of DF5.
It is clear from Figure 12 that the density of charges has shifted from the donor to the acceptor part.
Thus, the acceptor-type nature of the molecule DF5 was confirmed.
In the Voc diagram, all of the molecules (R and DF1–DF5) are blended with the polymer donor PTB7-Th to investigate the most efficient blend.
Besides, chlorophyll fluorescence damaged the acceptor side of photosystem II after using metal–organic framework-199.
This is a feasible approach as there are indeed several types of far NIR semiconductors like organic donors1011 and quantum dots1213 with an extended absorption beyond 1,000 nm.
Herein, we chose ZnO and neutral PEDOT:PSS (N-PEDOT) as the N- and P-type charge extraction materials, respectively, because the work functions of the two materials match well with the energy levels of the donor DPP and acceptor PC60BM2023.
To verify the compatibility of the two wide bandgap donors with the AgNW electrode, single-junction reference cells of PCDTBT:PC70BM and OPV12:PC60BM were first processed on both indium tin oxide (ITO) and AgNWs-coated glass substrates for comparison (Fig.
Nevertheless, these results suggest the excellent optoelectronic properties of the AgNWs that are compatible with different polymer donors.
It should be noted that the absorption of the DPP polymer donor shows a red-shift of only ∼50 nm compared with the perovskite and, therefore, we expect a significant enhancement when deeper NIR sensitizers are used as back series-connected tandem cells.
To produce high-performance OSCs, the donor materials are required to possess suitable frontier orbital energy levels, high carrier mobility, excellent film-forming ability, and good miscibility with a fullerene derivative as an acceptor.
Moreover, strong visible light photoabsorption ability for visible light is vital for the donor materials.
Star-shaped π-conjugated molecules consisting of hexa-peri-hexabenzocoronene [8–14], pyrene [15–17], and triphenylamine [18–23] central cores have been developed as donor materials for BHJ-OSCs.
To develop star-shaped and linear π-conjugated oligomers with acceptor–donor–acceptor electronic structures, an electron-donating TTA unit was coupled with electron-accepting diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)-based chromophoric units, which are well-known building blocks used in OSCs [28–31].
As shown in Figure 3, the 5% weight-loss temperature of TTA-DPP4 and TTA-DPP2, under N2 atmosphere, was determined to be 378 and 380 °C, respectively, suggesting the high thermal stability for these compounds as donor materials.
Because of their deep-lying HOMO levels and sufficient LUMO offsets (>0.5 eV), both TTA-DPP4 and TTA-DPP2 can serve as electron-donor materials in combination with [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as an acceptor materials, which has a LUMO level of –4.3 eV.
BHJ-OSCs were fabricated using TTA-DPP4 and TTA-DPP2 as electron-donor materials and PC71BM as an electron-acceptor material, with an inverted device configuration of glass/ITO/ZnO/donor:PC71BM(1:1.5, w/w)/MoO3/Ag.
The active layer was then spin-coated from a solution of the donor material and PC71BM in a mixed solvent of chloroform/1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) (98:2, v/v).
For most of the donor materials, including polymers and small molecules reported, the best photovoltaic performances were generally achieved with an active layer thickness of around 100 nm.
Multiple electron-accepting DPP arms were attached to the electron-donating TTA core to form star-shaped TTA-DPP4 and linear TTA-DPP2 that have acceptor–donor–acceptor electronic structures.
The photoactive layer was then prepared by spin-coating from a chloroform solution containing the donor material and PC71BM, after passing through a 0.45 μm PTFE membrane filter.
As a result, the search for non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) that simultaneously improve the PVK stability/morphology, exhibit good stability against light and moisture, and display tunable energy levels has become a hot topic in the field of PSCs.
In this sense, given the donor properties of these materials, Pcs and Ps are typically employed as p-type semiconductors (Urbani et al., 2019).
However, when changing to their contracted homologues, such as Subphthalocyanines (SubPcs; Figure 1), porphyrinic materials can become excellent acceptors if appropriately functionalized (Claessens et al., 2014).
The small band gap donor polymer poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2‴-quaterthiophen-5,5‴-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD), also known as PCE11, exhibits relatively high hole mobility under space charge limited current conditions (SCLC) (over 1.5–3.0 × 10−2 cm2·V−1·s−1 [5]) due to its high crystallinity.
These properties, together with its tendency to form relatively pure polymer domains when blended with fullerene acceptors, allow it to perform well in an OPV device, when used in relatively thick bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) layers (~300 nm).
This is particularly true at donor–acceptor (D–A) interfaces, where exciton separation/recombination occurs via charge transfer states (CTS) and bulk free electrical charge carriers are produced.
In this present work, we studied the impact of five different processing additives (1-chloronaphthalene, 1-methylnaphthalene, hexadecane, 1-phenyloctane, and p-anisaldehyde), with concentrations of 3% v/v in o-dichlorobenzene, on the BHJ morphology and the efficiency of devices based on the donor:acceptor pair PffBT4T-2OD:PC71BM.
The active layers were all spin-coated from a solution of o-dichlorobenzene, with 3% of solvent additive (volume percentage) as typically used in this donor:acceptor system, with the polymer PffBT4T-2OD and PC71BM having concentrations of 4 mg·mL−1 and 4.8 mg·mL−1, respectively (1:1.2 ratio).
This is ascribed to the lower concentration of electron acceptors for back-electron transfer from the semiconductor to the electrolyte.
High Rct values may follow from poor wettability preventing the electron acceptors from approaching the recombination sites.
Overall, EIS investigation on aqueous DSSCs provided three important features of aqueous electrolytes: (i) recombination at the photoanode/electrolyte interface could seem lower than that of standard electrolyte due to the inhibited electron acceptors approach to the recombination sites caused by the not perfect wettability of the electrode; (ii) an activation period is required for electrodes used in aqueous DSSCs; (iii) recombination phenomena are markedly influenced by the I– counter-ion.
For the present D131 dye-based system, such a behaviour is most likely ascribable to the formation of dye–I2 complexes, allowing for high concentrations of electron acceptors for back electron transfer around the semiconductor.
Moreover, the reasonable vertical orientation of this dye molecule with respect to the semiconductor surface may allow for the fast diffusion of the acceptor species in the electrolyte towards the recombination sites.
We present a simple yet effective electron irradiation approach to tune the band structure of [6, 6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) that is the most widely used organic acceptor material.
In particular, [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) is a small molecule that is most widely used as an electron acceptor in organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells [1].
The upper limit of the Voc is determined by the energy difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of the electron donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level of the electron acceptor [12].
Yet despite much attention, the effects of π bridges on exciton dissociation dynamics in donor–π–acceptor (D-π-A) alternating conjugated polymers remain still unclear.
Donor–acceptor alternating conjugated polymers, in which conjugated blocks of different electron affinity are arranged alternately along the main chain of the polymers, are excellent organic electronic material.
So it is reasonable to expect that the properties of low-bandgap donor polymers are closely related to the performance of devices.
Specially, the ultrafast exciton splitting and carrier dynamics of low-bandgap donor polymers are not directly related to the PCE of the devices.
On the other hand, only exciton split in the donor–acceptor bulk heterojunction (BHJ) interfacial could be considered to condition the device PCE [5].
Therefore, it is necessary to study the exciton and carrier dynamics of low-bandgap donor polymers to optimize the PCE of D-A organic photovoltaic devices.
For example, the HSD copolymers consist of 2,7-linked carbazole as the donor unit and 5,6-bis(octyloxy)benzo[c][1,2,5] thiadiazole as the acceptor unit, while have different π bridges.
The donor block and the acceptor block are directly polymerized to prepare the photovoltaic material as HSD-A.
Differently, one thiophene unit acts as the π-bridge connecting donor block and acceptor block is denoted as HSD-B, as well as the donor block and the acceptor block are connected by two thiophene units is denoted as HSD-C.
Using HSD copolymers as electron donor and PC71BM as electron acceptor to prepare organic photovoltaic devices, it is found that the devices prepared with HSD polymers with different π bridges have different PCE.
These evidences indicate that donor copolymers have an effect on PCE of polymer solar cells, but the correlation between devices performance and inherent characteristics of donor copolymers such as structure, energetic, and mobile carrier dynamics still indistinct.
Shaded blue and shaded red denote the donor and acceptor parts, respectively.
Shaded blue and shaded red denote the donor and acceptor parts, respectively.
Figure 1a shows the structural formula of the HSD conjugated polymers used in this work, the donor moieties are marked with a blue box, and the acceptor moieties are highlighted with a red circle.
The thiophene unit acts as the bridge-specific between the donor and acceptor, sequentially avoiding the steric repulsion between the individual donor and acceptor units.
As previously reported, it can also achieve long-distance charge separation between the donor and acceptor, thus ensuring a long-lived charge transfer state [8].
Fullerene derivatives are used in a wide range of applications including as electron acceptors in solution-processable organic photovoltaics.
Also, this work showcases the power of SESANS to probe agglomerates of fullerene derivatives in completely opaque solutions for agglomerates of the order of one to several microns.Fullerene derivatives are used in a wide range of applications including as electron acceptors in solution-processable organic photovoltaics.
Therefore, to be processed during device manufacture, fullerene-based acceptors need to have a reasonably high solubility in a given solvent.
The relative solubility of the fullerene-based acceptors in the photovoltaic ink solution influences their precipitation behaviour during thin film processing, playing therefore a crucial role in the morphology of the BHJs and consequently in the corresponding device performances.8–11 Besides the use of different processing solvents, another approach to control the morphology of BHJs and the corresponding device performance consists in adding to the photovoltaic ink solution small amounts (typically 3% v/v) of a high boiling point additive, 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) being the most popular one.12–15
However, using non-fullerene polymer-based acceptors led to recent advances in the PCE (> 18%) that put OSCs back in the race again [8, 9].
Examined devices utilize the well-characterized P3HT:PCBM photoactive blend with regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) as the electron donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as the electron acceptor material (see Fig.
Organic photovoltaics based on non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) show record efficiency of 16 to 17% and increased photovoltage owing to the low driving force for interfacial charge-transfer.
Thus, in the design of highly efficient devices, the energy offset at the donor:acceptor interface can be minimized without jeopardizing the charge-transfer rate and without concerns about a current-voltage tradeoff.It has been commonly believed that the driving force at the donor-acceptor heterojunction is vital to efficient charge separation in organic solar cells.
Organic heterojunctions between electron donors (D) and acceptors (A) are of vital importance for diverse applications ranging from photocatalysis, to batteries and solar energy conversion1–3.
In this respect, the recent success of non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs), that have taken the OPV community by storm with record device efficiencies over 16%3,9,18–23, has been attributed to efficient current generation in polymer:NFA blends even at very low or absent driving force, reducing VOC losses3,19,24.
Moreover, NFAs show high absorption in the visible and near-infrared (NIR) range, which can be complemented with the donor absorption to cover a broad spectrum for light harvesting.
For a further optimization of the power conversion efficiency, it is now essential to understand how the charge generation dynamics are impacted by acceptor light harvesting and the low driving force for CT, which both distinguish the NFA systems from fullerene blends.
This system is chosen since (i) the optimized 1:1 (mass ratio) blend shows high OPV efficiency of around 12%34, (ii) m-ITIC is representative of the ITIC-based core structure and general acceptor–donor–acceptor backbone motif of highly efficient (over 16%) NFAs34–36, (iii) the distinct absorption of the J61 donor and the m-ITIC acceptor allows for selective excitation of either (Supplementary Fig.
By combining different donor polymers with m-ITIC, we are able to generalize our conclusions to a broad range of donor:NFA systems.
Even if other NFA-based devices with lower voltage loss have been reported (current record PCE over 16% with VOC = 0.86 eV and voltage loss = 0.53 eV)36, which might show different recombination dynamics, the range of donor:acceptor blends we use here reflects most state-of-the-art NFA systems when addressing the question of how the low driving force affects the HT mechanism.Fig.
In the optimized 1:1 blend under 700 nm excitation of the acceptor, only the signatures of photo-excited m-ITIC (slightly red shifted compared to the neat film) are present in the TA spectra at early time delays and gradually convert to the signatures of charges, as the m-ITIC excitons dissociate by HT (Fig.
However, the weak 0.8 ps (14%) component points to a sub-picosecond intrinsic HT time scale if excitons are generated near a D:A interface or in an intermixed D:A region39, while the multiphasic slower charge generation could be limited by exciton diffusion.Table 1Charge-transfer rates for different driving forces.Excited-state energy ES1 of the acceptor (700 or 730 nm excitation) or donor (480 nm excitation), CT state energy (ECT) and driving force for exciton splitting (-ΔE).
Excited-state energy ES1 of the acceptor (700 or 730 nm excitation) or donor (480 nm excitation), CT state energy (ECT) and driving force for exciton splitting (-ΔE).
To verify this hypothesis, we move away from the morphological complexity of the optimized BHJ, to different sample configurations with more structural control, namely a bilayer fabricated by a lamination process40–46, and a 5:1 BHJ where the m-ITIC acceptor is present in dilute concentration (TA spectra in Supplementary Fig. 4).
In the latter, we aim to disperse the acceptor in the polymer matrix in order to minimize the exciton diffusion before it reaches the heterojunction.
Grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) and resonant soft X-ray scattering (R-SoXS) agree with the existence of m-ITIC-rich domains (leading to exciton diffusion) alongside ordered pure J61 and possibly polymer:NFA mixed regions in the 1:1 blend, while the acceptor is largely intermixed within the polymer matrix (which maintains similar aggregation as pure J61) in the 5:1 blend (see Supplementary Note 2 and Supplementary Fig. 5).
The slightly slower onset of HT in the other samples (1:1 blend and bilayer, 0.8 and 0.9 ps) can be explained by a less precise determination of the fastest time constant due to its low weight (14% and 17%), by a different molecular conformation between the donor and acceptor (we expect better coupling when m-ITIC is surrounded by J61 in the dispersed system)48, or by the influence of different molecular aggregation on the CT rate10,49.
Detailed analysis of the TA spectrum at 0.1 ps reveals that about 36% J61 excitons, 28% m-ITIC excitons and 36% charges are present (Supplementary Table 3), while only m-ITIC excitons are observed at the early time delay with selective acceptor excitation at 700 nm (Supplementary Fig. 7a).
b Schematic representation of the processes used in the kinetic model within the phase morphology of the blend, which comprises m-ITIC-rich domains (orange), neat ordered polymer domains (green) and intermixed donor–acceptor regions.
b Schematic representation of the processes used in the kinetic model within the phase morphology of the blend, which comprises m-ITIC-rich domains (orange), neat ordered polymer domains (green) and intermixed donor–acceptor regions.
In the bilayer, we find a percentage of excitons undergoing quenching by intrinsic HT (13% in 0.9 ps with 700 nm excitation, Supplementary Table 1) and by intrinsic ET (16% in <60 fs with 480 nm excitation, Supplementary Table 3) corresponding to excitons generated within 1.2 and 1.9 nm from the interface for the acceptor and donor, respectively (as calculated from the excitation profiles in Fig. 2d).
To this effect, we continue the strategy to dilute the m-ITIC acceptor in different polymer matrices (5:1 blends).
This is clearly depicted in the sEQE spectra by the gradual shift of the CT band in the sub-bandgap region with respect to the acceptor S1 state (see complete sEQE/EL analysis in Supplementary Fig.
To access also the intrinsic ET rates at different energetics, TA measurements with 480 nm excitation on 1:1 polymer:m-ITIC blends were carried out and reveal an ultrafast (shorter than 60 fs) ET component for all donors (Supplementary Fig.
b LUMO–LUMO transfer integral for ET and HOMO–HOMO transfer integral for HT in a J61:m-ITIC complex as a function of the donor:acceptor (D:A) distance.
b LUMO–LUMO transfer integral for ET and HOMO–HOMO transfer integral for HT in a J61:m-ITIC complex as a function of the donor:acceptor (D:A) distance.
We find an almost co-facial structural fit of the acceptor molecule on top of the donor polymer that maximizes the overlap of the molecular cores despite sterically demanding side chains (Fig.
4a), one should keep in mind that the re-organization energy and transfer integrals of the other donor:m-ITIC systems can be different (MLJ curves for different electronic couplings are included in Fig.
In conclusion, we have investigated here both the electron and hole transfer dynamics in heterojunctions of the non-fullerene acceptor m-ITIC with four polymeric donors having different driving forces and sample configurations.
In contrast, both the electron and hole transfer rates are ultrafast in typical polymer:fullerene systems32, sparking future interest in the efficiency of charge generation in NFA blends in regions of donor and acceptor excitation.
Overall, we show that the driving force for interfacial CT does not present a limiting factor for efficient CT at near zero energy loss, as long as the morphology and donor–acceptor geometry are optimized.
These pump wavelengths were chosen to selectively excite the donor polymers or the acceptor.
730 nm excitation was used in the 5:1 blends to exclude direct donor excitation due to its high loading.
The real (n) and imaginary (k) parts of the complex optical constants were determined from variable angle spectroscopic ellipsometry (VASE) measurements on neat polymer (J61) and acceptor (m-ITIC) films cast on Si (see results in Supplementary Table 5).
In particular, we used the B3LYP67,68 exchange-correlation functional and the 6-21G basis set for optimizing the molecular structures of monomers and donor-acceptor complexes and for determining the total energy.
In order to obtain the relaxation energies, we firstly optimized the molecular structures of neutral donors and acceptors individually (see Supplementary Note 7), to obtain their equilibrium geometry (short-hand notation R0) and the related total energies E(R0).
The relaxation energies, which are assigned mainly to intramolecular high-frequency modes due to the stiff backbone, of both donor and acceptor add to the intramolecular reorganization energy λi of the CT process.
For the polymer, we take the relaxation energy for the structure consisting of two repeat units as this is similar in size to the acceptor molecule, hence λi = λ0→+ + λ0→− = 161 meV.
For the simulation of donor–acceptor complexes to calculate the transfer integrals, the obtained molecular structures for m-ITIC and J61 were used to construct geometries with different lateral and vertical distances.
 Non-fullerene acceptors with optimized energy levels enable 10% efficient solar cells with reduced voltage losses <0.6 V.Optimization of the energy levels at the donor–acceptor interface of organic solar cells has driven their efficiencies to above 10%.
However, further improvements towards efficiencies comparable with inorganic solar cells remain challenging because of high recombination losses, which empirically limit the open-circuit voltage (V oc) to typically less than 1 V. Here we show that this empirical limit can be overcome using non-fullerene acceptors blended with the low band gap polymer PffBT4T-2DT leading to efficiencies approaching 10% (9.95%).
Suppression of non-radiative recombination implies high external electroluminescence quantum efficiencies which are orders of magnitude higher than those of equivalent devices employing fullerene acceptors.
However, the compromise between voltage loss and external quantum efficiency (EQE) still limits the PCE of these devices for further improvements with devices providing open circuit voltages (V oc) > 1 V. In this report, we present a guideline for reducing the compromise between voltage loss and EQE by using small-molecule acceptors and achieve PCEs up to 10% without the need for fullerene acceptors.
By replacing fullerenes with different small molecule acceptors, we were able to achieve efficiencies up to 10% with V oc values >1 V (up to 1.12 V) and EQE values approaching 76%.
These improvements are achieved by suppressing recombination losses in the donor:acceptor blends and optimizing the nano-structure for efficient charge separation at the interface.
Below a voltage loss of about E g/q – V oc ≈ 0.6 V, there are hardly any reports in the literature of reasonable photocurrents and EQEmax values above 50%, with a few notable recent exceptions including using non-fullerene acceptors.5,6,10 Although some of these reports focused on minimizing the voltage loss E g/q – V oc whilst keeping EQE as high as possible, the V oc of the corresponding devices remained still below 1 V. Furthermore, the values for J sc and fill factor (FF) were comparatively lower than those of their fullerene containing counterparts.11–14 Thus, there seems to be an empirical limit both to the V oc and the voltage loss and it is difficult to overcome this limit even using NFA alternatives.4–6,12 So far, V oc values exceeding 1 V in organic solar cells have been achieved with very few acceptors.9,15,16 The relatively large voltage losses obtained to date with organic solar cells have been related to the observation of high non-radiative recombination losses if compared to many inorganic and hybrid solar cell materials.17 Materials such as GaAs or metal-halide perovskites, for instance, have achieved voltage losses as low as 0.22 V, due to the lower non-radiative recombination losses in these cells, as demonstrated for example by the relatively high electroluminescence yields (EQEEL) reported for these devices.18–20 The EQEEL for organic solar cells is usually very weak (in the range of 10–6 to 10–4%) due to weakly absorbing charge transfer (CT) states.
As such, a key challenge for organic solar cells is increased the EQEEL which is viable with the suppression of such non-radiative recombination losses.19,21,22 Finding a donor:acceptor combination which simultaneously has minimized energetic offset for charge separation (ΔE CS) and high EQEEL (>10–4) with suppressed non-radiative recombination losses (<0.3 V) along with a favourable nanoscale morphology for reduced non-geminate recombination to give high EQE and fill factors (FFs), is still a challenge in OPV.
Small molecule acceptors (SMA) have emerged as strong alternatives to fullerene derivatives in organic solar cells in the last couple of years.5,6 Their high absorption coefficients and tunable absorption spectra in the visible range enables enhanced photon harvesting and higher LUMO energy levels which contribute to photocurrent and photovoltage in bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) devices.
5,10 show that non-fullerene acceptors are promising candidates to overcome this barrier.
Here we show that the empirical limits on the origin of 1 V oc and voltage-loss can be overcome by selecting four different donor:NFA combinations using fluorene, indenofluorene and indacenodithiophene based NFAs (see ESI† for details) and a low band gap polymer PffBT4T-2DT, resulting in power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) as high as 7.8% and 9.95% when FBR and IDTBR molecules are used as acceptors, respectively.
The molecular structures of PffBT4T-2DT and the acceptor molecules are illustrated in Fig.
Recently, FBR was reported as a visible absorbing alternative acceptor to PCBM and used for solar cells with P3HT.27 Although the efficiency was improved (4.1%) relative to PCBM (3.5%) due to an increased V oc, overlapping absorption profiles of P3HT (530 nm) and FBR (510 nm) limited the amount of photocurrent at longer wavelengths and initiated the search for an alternative donor material whose absorption and energy levels are more complementary to FBR than P3HT (Table S2, ESI†).
Two different non-fullerene acceptors (IDFBR and FTTB) have been designed and synthesized which absorb similar to FBR and therefore have complementary absorption spectra to many low band gap polymers (the synthetic details of the IDFBR and FTTB can be found in the ESI†).
S1a, ESI†) due to replacing the rhodanine end group with a stronger dye chromophore – thiobarbituric acid – which effectively contributes to the photon harvesting.28 The low band gap acceptor IDTBR has also shown to work nicely with P3HT; however, the high lying HOMO energy level of P3HT limited the V oc below 1 V in these devices.29
(A) Chemical structures of PffBT4T-2DT and acceptors used in this study.
(C) Energy level diagram for the donor and acceptor materials obtained from film CV measurements.
EA of PffBT4T-2DT and IP of acceptors are estimated from the optical bandgaps of the materials.
We note this energy offset is analogous to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) level offset ΔE LUMO between donor and acceptor, but includes the effect of the exciton binding energy in lowering each materials optical bandgap relative to its electronic bandgap.30 The IP of PffBT4T-2DT and EA of acceptors FBR, IDFBR and FTTB are calculated as 5.34 eV, 3.75 eV, 3.70 eV, 3.62 eV, respectively from the film CVs and the corresponding EA and IP values were estimated using the E g values of the neat films (Fig.
S1B and C, ESI†).31,32 A similar conclusion is reached from our estimated LUMO energy offset for this blend, ΔE LUMO ≈ 50 meV, significantly smaller than that reported previously for other efficient donor/acceptor blends.
The photovoltaic properties of the PffBT4T-2DT:FBR and PffBT4T-2DT:IDTBR blends are investigated by fabricating devices with a ITO/ZnO/active layer (d ≈ 120 nm)/MoOx/Ag architecture using different donor:acceptor (D/A) ratios without any additional annealing or processing additives.
Photovoltaic performances of the solar cells based on PffBT4T-2DT and various acceptors (FBR, IDTBR and PCBM) under standard AM 1.5G illumination
To investigate the effect of the acceptor on the crystallinity of PffBT4T-2DT, we perform grazing incidence wide angle X-ray scattering measurements (GIWAXS) measurements and the integrated scattered intensities of the PffBT4T-2DT:FBR and PffBT4T-2DT:PCBM films are demonstrated in Fig.
The fact that organic solar cells do not usually achieve high photocurrents for low voltage losses (E g/q – V oc) is often due to an increase in exciton decay to the ground state and/or geminate recombination of bound polaron pairs, typically associated with a reduction in the ΔE CS at the donor–acceptor heterojunction.31 ΔE CS is extremely low with this materials system and it is therefore remarkable that photocurrent generation is found to be efficient.
S4C, ESI†), which indicate that illumination at both the donor and acceptor absorption maxima results in PL quenching of about 85%, consistent with our ultrafast TAS data.
4A shows the determined mobility as a function of charge density for the two different acceptor blends.
Thus, the donor–acceptor interface is not a limiting factor for the V oc loss, which is similar to the case of inorganic solar cells, perovskite solar cells or some low bandgap polymer:fullerene blends like PDPP3T:PCBM.17–19 Thus, the only remaining voltage loss is due to non-radiative recombination (ΔV oc,nr), which is the voltage difference between V oc,rad, where all the recombination is radiative, and the measured V oc.41 Note that this voltage loss ΔV oc,nr should not be confused with the voltage difference between E g/q and V oc, which was displayed in Fig.
(C) Comparison of the relation between V oc and ΔV oc,nr for different photovoltaic technologies including this work with non-fullerene acceptors.
Thus, using alternative non-fullerene acceptors in OPV which shows that the intrinsic disadvantages of bulk heterojunctions can be largely overcome leading to devices with high luminescence despite the large internal interface area.18,19
In the past low band gap polymers with band gaps ∼1.4 eV have been introduced and efficiencies of >7% have been reached with fullerene acceptors.51 However, low band gap polymers have so far not been able to overcome the efficiency of polymers like PffBT4T-2OD which have band gaps of around 1.6 eV.
In summary, we have shown that a combination of a low band gap polymer and non-fullerene acceptor, PffBT4T-2DT:FBR, can yield remarkably high open-circuit voltage up to 1.12 V, along with high external quantum efficiencies >55% resulting in 7.8% PCE in single-junction inverted devices without any pre- or post-treatment.
Furthermore, we suggest explanations on the efficient photo-induced charge transfer and high photovoltaic performance of PffBT4T-2DT:FBR blend, where there is less than 0.1 eV ΔE CS between donor and acceptor which is much smaller than the empirical value of 0.3 eV often reported for efficient charge separation.
Using the same polymer, an efficiency up to 10% is possible when IDTBR is used as acceptor, keeping the V oc values above 1 V (1.07 V) with remarkably high EQE values of 75%.
The FBR acceptor was synthesized as previously described in ref.
The blue and violet lines result from the new data points presented in this work for FBR (EQEmax = 0.57, ΔV oc = 0.5 V) and IDTBR (EQEmax = 0.75, ΔV oc = 0.56 V) acceptors, respectively.
S. H. synthesized the FBR acceptor.
This energy transfer allows for the movement of excitons across excitonic wires,5,9 from antennae to reaction centers,10,11 or to charge separation interfaces between electron donor and acceptor materials.12,13 The functionality of molecular materials employing excitons relies on the properties of the dyes and their aggregates.
BackgroundNovel six organic donor-π-acceptor molecules (D-π-A) used for Bulk Heterojunction organic solar cells (BHJ), based on thienopyrazine were studied by density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) approaches, to shed light on how the π-conjugation order influence the performance of the solar cells.
The electron acceptor group was 2-cyanoacrylic for all compounds, whereas the electron donor unit was varied and the influence was investigated.MethodsThe TD-DFT method, combined with a hybrid exchange-correlation functional using the Coulomb-attenuating method (CAM-B3LYP) in conjunction with a polarizable continuum model of salvation (PCM) together with a 6-31G(d,p) basis set, was used to predict the excitation energies, the absorption and the emission spectra of all molecules.ResultsThe trend of the calculated HOMO–LUMO gaps nicely compares with the spectral data.
Generally, the organic BHJ solar cells based on the mixture of electron donor (material organic) and electron acceptor materials as PCBM or its derivatives and have been utilized in the aim to harvest the sunlight.
In order to achieve high current density in SMOSCs, utilizing new donor molecules that can efficiently absorb the sunlight at the maximum solar flux region (500–900 nm) of the solar spectrum, because the energy conversion efficiency of the small molecule for organic solar cells is directly attached to the light harvesting ability of the electron donor molecules.
In addition, to get high open circuit voltage (Voc), the HOMO levels of the donor molecules should be down a −5.0 eV, in which this factor is calculated by the difference between the HOMO and LUMO levels of the donor and acceptor materials, respectively.
The most small molecule organic semiconductors used in solar cells have a push–pull structure comprising electron donors and acceptors in objective to enhance the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) and the band gap becomes narrow and then, yielding higher molar absorptivity [22–25].
The organic material based on thienopyrazine has been used as a donor unit; still receive considerable attention for their exceptional optoelectronic properties [30, 31].
The HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the donor and of the acceptor compounds present an important factor for photovoltaic devices which determine if the charge transfer will be happen between donor and acceptor.
1 bout their structural, electronic and optical properties could help to design more efficient functional photovoltaic organic materials, for aim to find the best material which is used as a donor electron in BHJ device in the solar cell.Fig.
Torsional angles Φ1 and Φ2 are the deviation from coplanarity of π-spacer with the donor and acceptor and the LB1 and LB2 are the bond lengths of π-spacer from the donor and acceptor.
The large torsional angle Φ1 of the compounds P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and P6 suggest that strong steric hindrance exists between the donor and π-spacer.
For P2, the dihedral angles Φ1 formed between the donor group and π-spacer is 0.78°, indicating a smaller conjugation effect compared to the other compounds where the coplanarity can be observed, but this geometry of P2 allows inhibiting the formation of π-stacked aggregation efficiently.
Furthermore, the dihedral angles Φ2 of all compounds is very small (2.77, 2.95, 2.85, 2.82, 2.84 and 2.76) wich indicates that the acceptor (cyanoacrylic unit) is coplanar with π-spacer (thiophene–thienopyrazine–thiophene).
The shorter value from the length of bridge bonds between π-spacer and the donor (LB1) and in another side between π-spacer and acceptor (LB2) favored the ICT within the D-π-A molecules.
On the other hand, upon photoexcitation to the excited state (S1), the bond lengths and torsional angles for these compounds significantly decreased in comparison with those in the ground state (S0), especially the linkage between the π-spacer and the acceptor moiety (LB2).
These results indicate that the connection of acceptor group (2-cyanoacrylic acid) and the π-bridge is crucial for highly enhanced ICT character, which is important for the absorption spectra red-shift.
The HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the donor and of the acceptor components for photovoltaic devices are very important factors to determine whether the effective charge transfer will happen between donor and acceptor.
This is clearly due to the effect of the electron-donor unit which is strong of P1, P2, and P3 than that of other compounds.
On another side, we note that the PCBM has the smallest value of the chemical potential (μ = −4.9) compared to six compounds (P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, and P6) (see Table 2), this is a tendency to view the electrons to escape from compound Pi has a high chemical potential to PCBM which has a small chemical potential, therefore PCBM behaves as an acceptor of electrons and others compounds Pi behave as a donor of electrons.
All HOMOs show the typical aromatic features with electron delocalization for the whole conjugated molecule and are mainly localized at the donor parts and conjugated spacer, whereas the LUMOs are concentrated on the π-spacer and at the acceptor moieties (cyano acrylic unit).
Therefore the photoexcited electron will be transferred from donor moiety (donor of an electron) to the acceptor group during the excitation process, which is of benefit to the injection of the photoexcited electrons to the LUMO of the semiconductor (PCBM).
In another side, we remark that the acceptor group (–CCNCOOH) of all compound has a considerable contribution to the LUMOs which could lead to a strong electronic coupling with PCBM surface upon photoexcitation electron and thus improve the electron injection efficiency, and subsequently enhance the short-circuit current density Jsc.Fig.
The maximum open-circuit voltage (Voc) of the BHJ is determined by the difference between the HOMO of the donor (π-conjugated molecule) and the LUMO of the acceptor, taking into account the energy lost during the photo-charge generation [47, 48].
In addition, low LUMO of the π-conjugated compounds and a high LUMO of the acceptor of the electron (PC71BM, PC60BM) increase the value of VOC, which contributes a high efficiency of the solar cells [48, 50].
The theoretical values of the open circuit voltage Voc of the studied molecules range from 1.499 to 1.804 eV in the case of PC60BM and 0.425 to 0.73 eV in the case of PC71BM (Table 3), these values are sufficient for a possible efficient electron injection into LUMO of the acceptor.Table 3Energy values of ELUMO (eV), EHOMO (eV), Egap (eV) and the open circuit Voltage Voc (eV) and LUMOdonor−LUMOacceptorof the studied molecules obtained by B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) levelCompoundsELUMO (ev)EHOMO (ev)Voc (eV)/PC60BMLD − LA(PC60BM)Voc (eV)/PC71BMLD − LA(PC71BM)P1−3.057−5.0251.4990.1690.4251.243P2−3.293−5.2761.75−0.0670.6761.007P3−3.099−5.0911.5650.1270.4911.201P4−3.124−5.1391.6130.1020.5391.176P5−3.140−5.1551.6290.0860.5551.160P6−3.159−5.3301.8040.1070.7301.141PC61BM−3.226−5.985****************PC71BM−4.300−6.000****************
Energy values of ELUMO (eV), EHOMO (eV), Egap (eV) and the open circuit Voltage Voc (eV) and LUMOdonor−LUMOacceptorof the studied molecules obtained by B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level
4 show that the differences (LD − LA) of LUMO energy levels between those new designed donors (P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and P6) and the acceptor of PC60BM is larger than 0 eV except P2.
The same remark in case PC71BM, the differences (LD − LA) energy is also larger than 0 eV, which ensures efficient electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor (PC60BM, PC71BM) except P2 in case PC60BM because is more lower to 0 eV.
It is possible to assess the ideal performance donor, according to the position of its [ELUMO (donor) − ELUMO (acceptor)] energy and its band gap (Fig. 5).
5Calculated efficiency under AM1.5G illumination for single junction devices based on composites that consist of a donor with a variable band gap and LUMO level and an acceptor with a variable LUMO level [34]
Calculated efficiency under AM1.5G illumination for single junction devices based on composites that consist of a donor with a variable band gap and LUMO level and an acceptor with a variable LUMO level [34]
From Table 4, we could find that as the donor group changing, the first vertical excitation energies (E) were changed in decreasing order in both phases (gaseous and solvated): P6 > D5 > P4 > P2 > P3 > P1 showing that there is a red shift when passing from P6 to P1.
So, long radiative lifetimes facilitate the electron transfer upon the photoexcited electron, from LUMO of electron-donor to LUMO of electron-acceptor, thus lead to high light-emitting efficiency.
We have used the density functional theory method to investigate the geometries and electronic properties of some thienopyrazine-derivatives in alternate donor-π-acceptor structure.
The electronic properties of new conjugated materials based on thienopyrazine and heterocyclic compounds and different acceptor moieties have been computed by using 6-31G(d,p) basis set at a density functional B3LYP level, in order to guide the synthesis of novel materials with specific electronic properties.
The predicted band gaps by using DFT-B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) are in the range of 1.968–2.171 eV, knowing that the small band gap due to the increasing of the displacement of the electron between donor and acceptor spacer is very easy.
The decreasing of the band gap of these six materials due to increasing the absorption wavelengths, then the best commands which can be used in photovoltaic cells such as donor of electronic, is one which has the small band gap and large wavelengths, thus all compounds (1–6) are appropriate to do this role.
More specifically, the rylene imide function spearheaded this development to reach electron acceptors of major interest in energy storage [13] and organic electronics [14], in particular in organic field-effect transistors (OFETs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) and organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices [15].
Of course, their high potential as electron-poor arylenediimides [29,30] is still widely exploited today for important developments in organic electronics [31], more specifically in OLEDs [32], OFETs [33] and as nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs), small molecules in organic solar cells (OSCs) [34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42] or in all-polymer solar cells (All-PSCs) [43].
This opens the way for nucleophilic substitution to introduce donor groups the on both the 9 and 10 peri positions, as in compound 24, but also to consider selective substitutions in the bay (substituted by chlorine atoms) and peri (substituted by bromine atoms) positions.
Indeed, a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) effect occurring from the rhenium complex to the PDI acceptor could explain the fluorescence quenching.
With the electron pair on the nitrogen atom acting as a donor towards the PDI acceptor, a shift in the PDI absorption from 530 nm to 680 nm is observed, thus providing an excellent contrast for PA applications.
To introduce a compromise on the strength of the donor character towards the PDI unit, and with the idea to slightly blue-shift the absorption [142], asymmetric pH-sensitive nanotheranostic agents called HPDI and APDI were designed (Figure 31) [143].
The distinct peri position allows nucleophilic substitution as well as the introduction of donors, such as the pyrrolidinyl group [145], or acceptor moieties and thus provides the impressive tailoring of the photophysical properties of PMIs.
The unsymmetric electron acceptors of Th–DPP–Py and Th–DPP–FBz were polymerized with the electron donor of two-dimensional benzobisthiophene (BDT-Th), affording two regiorandom DPP copolymers.
The first- and second-milestone polymers are highly crystalline regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT)20−22 and narrow band gap polymers (NBPs) implemented through the intramolecular charge-transfer transition of covalently bonded electron donor and acceptor units, respectively.23−26 Owing to the great deal of freedom in the molecular design, the NBP strategy has yielded various conjugated polymers for OPV, of which electron-deficient units include isoindigo,27−30 thienopyrorodione,31−33 benzothiadiazole,34−37 and quinoxaline.38−41
Diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)42−44 is a conventional red dye and has been used as the electron acceptor of NBPs.
Other unsymmetric electron acceptors are fluorinated thienothiophene of PTB7,25,51−53 benzothienoisoindigo,54−56 and pyridylthiadiazole (PT).57−59 The electron donor of benzodithiophene (BDT) with asymmetric side units is another example, which is unsymmetric in the direction perpendicular to the polymer backbone.60,61 The unsymmetric structure and regiorandom configuration of copolymer would lead to a good balance between solubility and crystallinity and, in some cases, a highly preferential face-on orientation of the polymer backbone, suitable for OPV devices.54,55 We have previously reported the unsymmetric DPP-based copolymers bearing phenyl (Ph) and Th or TT, exhibiting PCEs of 2.3–2.4%, which were higher than the symmetric analogue of Ph-DPP-Ph (0.45%).62 Such an unsymmetric DPP bears a half-distorted π-plane due to the steric hindrance between the proton of Ph and oxygen of DPP, which provides very good solubility (∼100 mg mL–1 in toluene).
Because the improved PCE of 3.75% was achieved for the regiorandom NBP, composed of Th–DPP–Py as the electron acceptor and two-dimensional benzobisthiophene appending alkylthiophene side units (BDT-Th)63,64 as the electron donor, we synthesized a regioregular DPP copolymer via sandwiching the centrosymmetric BDT-Th unit by two Th–DPP–Py units in an axisymmetric manner.
However, such an unsymmetrically labeled monomer is difficult for our polymer to synthesize because of the large size of the acceptor that weakens the difference in proton (or bromine) reactivity.
(a) Two types of regioregular donor–acceptor copolymers.
The donor–acceptor–donor compounds were geometry-optimized using DFT with B3LYP/6-31G*.
This is because the acceptor unit of previous regioregular polymers is one unsymmetric aromatic ring in the conjugation direction.
With regards to polymer design, this study suggests that the regioregularity control does not necessarily lead to improved OPV performance, which is possibly attributable to cases of large-sized unsymmetric acceptors.
Light-harvesting layers are composed of light-absorbing donor materials intermixed with electron-accepting acceptor materials in the form of interpenetrating networks as is said bulk heterojunction (BHJ) [2].
A meaningful PCE with 3–5% was firstly obtained by using poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and [6,6]-phenyl-C60-butyric methyl ester (PCBM) as donor and acceptor materials, respectively [5].
The PCDTBT and a soluble fullerene, PCBM were used as donor and acceptor materials, respectively.
5a Ideal energy band diagram of measured device and b detailed view of vacuum and LUMO level band bending induced by variation of hole traps in donor polymer
a Ideal energy band diagram of measured device and b detailed view of vacuum and LUMO level band bending induced by variation of hole traps in donor polymer
Molecular orientations and interfacial morphologies have critical effects on the electronic states of donor/acceptor interfaces and thus on the performance of organic photovoltaic devices.
In this study, we explore the energy levels and charge-transfer states at the organic donor/acceptor interfaces on the basis of the fragment-based GW and Bethe–Salpeter equation approach.
The CT states of organic donor/acceptor systems have been studies using time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) [9,10,11,12].
In a gas phase (Figure 1a), the energy of the CT state is given by the highest-occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy of a donor molecule, the lowest-unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy of an acceptor molecule, and the Coulomb interaction between the electron and the hole.
The solid-state polarization effects reduce the energy gap between the donor HOMO and the acceptor LUMO (Figure 1b) and weakens the e–h interaction.
In a solid phase, the electron or hole wave function can be delocalized over multiple acceptor or donor molecules, and delocalized CT states can be formed (Figure 1c).
As depicted in Figure 1b, a localized CT state consists of a localized electron in an acceptor molecule and a localized hole in a donor molecule.
The driving energy for the charge separation is often estimated as the offset between donor and acceptor LUMOs (or HOMOs).
In previous studies, energy levels of donor/acceptor interfaces have often been estimated from cyclic voltammetry measurements in solution or UPS spectra of donor or acceptor thin films.
However, our results indicate that careful assessments are necessary to determine the actual electronic states for specific donor/acceptor morphologies.
Herein, ternary donor alloy strategy is used to precisely tune the energy of CT state (E CT) and thus the E loss for boosting the efficiency of OSCs.
This contribution reveals that precisely tuning the E CT via donor alloy strategy is an efficient way to minimize E loss and improve the photovoltaic performance of OSCs.Donor alloy strategy is proposed to tune chare transfer (CT) state erergy and thus E loss for boosting organic solar cells (OSCs) efficiency.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4  ] The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs has witnessed rapid progress with the development of donor and acceptor materials, device engineering, and in‐depth mechanism investigations.
[  17 ,  18 ,  19  ] The ΔE CT is considered as the energy loss for charge generation caused by the essential driving force for exciton dissociation in OSCs, which can be calculated using E g − E CT, where E g is the optical bandgap of the donor/acceptor materials, and E CT is the energy of CT state.
Apparently, increasing the E CT by minimizing the energetic offset between the donor and the acceptor can effectively reduce ΔE CT.[  20 ,  21  ] Importantly, the reduced ΔE CT can further promote the hybridization between the highly luminescent localized excitation (LE) state and CT state, which may increase the luminescence of CT state through an intensity borrowing mechanism, resulting in the decrease of ΔE nonrad.
[  26 ,  27  ] The energy levels of the nonfullerene acceptor alloys can be tuned by varying its composition ratio, thus regulating the E CT, E loss, and V oc of the corresponding OSCs.
[  28 ,  29  ] The increased lowest unoccupied molecular orbital level of the acceptor alloys will be accompanied by the improvement of E CT of the corresponding devices, resulting in the decrease of E loss and the increase of V oc.
However, the absorption spectra of the acceptor alloys will generally undergo a blueshift, which will narrow the photon harvesting range of the active layer, detrimental to the J sc of OSCs.
[  30 ,  31  ] To solve this trade‐off issue, donor alloys have been used to reduce the E loss and increase the V oc by incorporating a donor with a wide bandgap and deep highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level as the third component.
Simultaneously, the J sc of OSCs may be increased by incorporating a wide bandgap donor into the active layers, which broadened the absorption range and thus improved its photon capture ability.
However, the construction of ternary OSCs based on donor alloys remains great challenges due to the finite entropy of polymers, resulting in large repulsive intermolecular interaction between two polymer donors.
[  32 ,  33  ] Very recently, a representative example of the ternary OSC based on two polymer donors provided a record high PCEs of over 19.0% by forming a double‐fibril network morphology in active layer.
[  34  ] Thus, tuning E CT via donor alloy, thereby increasing both V oc and J sc, may be another promising strategy to improve photovoltaic performance.
Herein, the polymer donor D18‐Cl, possessing similar chemical structure and deeper HOMO energy level relative to PM6, was elaborately selected as the third component for the PM6:L8‐BO host system to fabricate efficient ternary OSCs.
Impressively, PM6 and D18‐Cl formed donor alloy in ternary active layers due to their excellent miscibility, supported by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurement.
The donor D18‐Cl was selected as the third component since it possesses similar chemical structure and deeper HOMO energy level relative to PM6.
Considering the high similarity of chemical structure of PM6 and D18‐Cl, the two polymer donors may have good compatibility to form an alloy like phase in ternary blend films.
[  36  ] The calculated interfacial energy of PM6:D18‐Cl blend is 0.02 mN m−1, which is much smaller than those of PM6/L8‐BO and D18‐Cl/L8‐BO, indicating that the two materials are fully miscible in ternary blend films to form a donor alloy.
[  38  ] Therefore, the formation of PM6:D18‐Cl alloy can be well confirmed, which is conducive to tune the energy level of the donor in active layer over a wide range of D18‐Cl contents without generating charge traps.
The donor/acceptor (D/A) weight ratio was kept constant (1:1.2), and the detailed experimental procedure is described in the Supporting Information.
Thus, efficient ternary OSCs with low E loss and high V oc can be expected by employing alloyed PM6:D18‐Cl as a donor, and L8‐BO as an acceptor.
g) Orbital energy diagram of PM6:D18‐Cl:L8‐BO ternary system with alloying donor.
The elevated E CT and thus reduced ΔE CT of the ternary OSCs may be ascribed to the lower‐lying HOMO energy level of PM6:D18‐Cl alloy donor in active layers, resulting in the reduced HOMO–HOMO offset between donor and acceptor (ΔE HOMO(D–A)) (Figure 2g).
With the decay of L8‐BO GSB signal in the range of 650–790 nm, the donors GSB signal at 560–650 nm emerges in the binary and ternary films.
The signals at 595 and 725 nm were selected to investigate the decay traces of donor and acceptor, respectively.
As shown in Figure 3d, the decay of the L8‐BO GSB signal at 725 nm agrees with the rise of the GSB signal of the donor at 595 nm, implying the photoinduced hole transfer process from L8‐BO to the donor.
The GSB signal intensity at 595 nm of the blend films should be positively correlated with the amount of hole transfer from L8‐BO to the donor, which can reflect the exciton dissociation efficiency within the blend film.
d) The decay traces of donor and acceptor in binary and ternary blend films, monitored at 595 and 725 nm, respectively.
e) The GSB kinetics of donor probed at 595 nm in binary and ternary blend films.
In summary, high‐performance ternary OSCs were prepared with PM6:D18‐Cl as the alloyed donor and L8‐BO as the acceptor.
The formation of PM6:D18‐Cl donor alloy enabled precisely tuning the E CT by simply varying its composition ratio, resulting in reduced ΔE CT and ΔE nonrad, and significantly enhanced V oc of the ternary OSCs.
This contribution presented that precisely tuning the E CT via donor alloy strategy is an efficient strategy to achieve highly efficient OSCs.
Although much progress has been made in designing new donor and acceptor molecules, rational control over active layer morphology remains a central challenge.
Organic solar cell active layers consist of two organic semiconductors, one serving as an electron donor and the other as an electron acceptor.
Due to the high binding energy of excitons in organic semiconductors [2,16], the exciton cannot dissociate unless it diffuses to a donor–acceptor interface, where it is energetically favorable to separate into free charges (see Figure 1A,B) [2].
For the charges to be collected, the electron must travel through the acceptor to the cathode while the hole must travel through the donor to the anode [2,6,16,29,30].
For efficient organic solar cell operation, two competing length scale requirements must be satisfied: (1) the light absorbing layer must be hundreds of nanometers thick for efficient light absorption; and (2) the light-induced generation of excitons must occur within about 10 nm of a donor–acceptor interface for separation into free charge carriers [3,7,14,22], otherwise the light-generated excitation will be lost to recombination.
The bulk-heterojunction concept [3,6,15,22,31] cleverly satisfies both requirements through the use of nanoscale interpenetrating donor and acceptor domains, as illustrated in Figure 1C.
In bulk-heterojunction solar cells, the light-capturing film is sufficiently thick to absorb most incoming light, while the high density of donor–acceptor interfaces provides efficient charge generation.
In practice, in addition to pure domains, finely mixed donor–acceptor regions are also commonly present on account of donor–acceptor miscibility [22,32,33,34,35].
Continuous charge transport pathways are required for holes to percolate through the donor to the anode, and electrons to percolate through the acceptor to the cathode.
The open circuit voltage Voc is the voltage across the device when there is no net flow of current, and is predominantly dependent on the difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor, while also being influenced by the electrode work function [1,46,47,48,49].
Nanostructured bulk heterojunction active layers are typically achieved by casting a thin film from a donor–acceptor co-solution, and using thermal annealing, additives, or other means to promote phase separation [2,22,50,51].
The design of donor–acceptor systems with specified supramolecular interactions provides opportunities to tailor organic solar cell active layer structure, which plays such a critical role in device operation.
This section will discuss how aromatic stacking has been harnessed to form nanowires, manipulate active layer domain size, and mediate donor–acceptor interactions.
A widely-studied class of polymer donor, poly(3-alkylthiophene) (P3AT), forms nanowires through face-to-face stacking of the polymer backbone, with the stacking direction being parallel to the long axis of the wire (see Figure 2) [30,58,65].
It was hypothesized that the introduction of acceptor nanowires would help lower the amount of recombination under full illumination [71].
A primary challenge with making an all-nanowire active layers has been synthesizing acceptor nanowires of appropriate size, particularly for small molecule acceptors.
A series of oligothiophene-functionalized naphthalene diimide (NDI) acceptors were synthesized with varying conjugation length and end groups.
The best performing NDI acceptor had tri-thiophene chains and hexyl end groups (NDI-3TH), providing the narrowest nanoribbons (80–250 nm wide, 14.2–15.3 nm thick, and 2–10 µm long), and the highest Voc, Jsc, and FF.
If the domains are too large, a large fraction of light-generated excitons will recombine before reaching a donor–acceptor interface where the exciton can be split into free charges.
Although fullerenes have historically outperformed other acceptor molecules, there is significant interest in exploring alternatives [73,74,75,76,77,78].
When used as an acceptor in bulk heterojunction active layers, PDIs domains are typically too large for efficient exciton separation [93,94,95,96], resulting in limited efficiencies [97,98].
A similar trend was observed when these acceptor molecules were blended with polymer donor poly(bithiopheneimide terthiophene) (PBTI3T), though the blend films were smoother and exhibited a reduced crystallinity relative to the pure PDI films.
In blended films with polymer donor poly[4,8-bis-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-4-(2-ethylhexyloxy-1-one)thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-2-yl-2-ethylhexan-1-one] (PDBTTT-CT), PDI monomer domains were several micrometers in size while PDI dimer domains were on the order of 10 nm.
In the best-performing system, a PDI dimer bearing a bulky spiro-fluorene linking group produced domain sizes of 20–30 nm along with a large Voc of 0.98 V when combined with a difluorobenzothiadiazole-quarterthiophene polymer donor, PffBT4T-2DT.
The tunable assembly and concomitant improvements in photovoltaic performance demonstrated with PDI derivatives show great promise for π-stacking acceptor molecules.
Aromatic stacking has also been employed to mediate interactions between donors and acceptors in OPV active layers.
Chemical structures of copolymer donor P3HT-b-P3TPy and fullerene acceptor PCPy, and schematic of the self-assembled lamellar active layer structure.
Another strategy for manipulating the assembly of donor–acceptor systems is to covalently attach donor and acceptor small molecules [107,108,109], oligomers [110,111,112], or polymers [113,114,115,116,117,118].
In some instances, aromatic stacking has led to fibrous coaxial donor–acceptor assemblies [108,115].
When incorporated into organic solar cells, donor–acceptor dyads or copolymers have primarily been used as a third component that can increase the stability of the active layer [114,116], limit macrophase separation, and increase performance [111,113,114,116].
So far, when used as the sole component of an active layer, most covalently attached donor–acceptor systems have exhibited limited OPV performances [109,112,114,117,118].
Recent work with donor–acceptor block copolymers has shown significant promise.
Although such nanoscale structuring is highly desirable for organic solar cells, the use of rigid, fully conjugated donor–acceptor block copolymers—for which competition between segregation and crystallization can complicate the self-assembly behavior—are still relatively unexplored [120,122,123,124].
A fully conjugated block copolymer made from P3HT and a polymer acceptor poly-((9,9-dioctylfluorene)-2,7-diyl-alt-[4,7-bis(thiophen-5-yl)-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole]-2′,2″-diyl) (PFTBT) was shown to be close to three times more efficient than a bulk-heterojunction made from the homopolymers; the PCE for the copolymer was 2.7%, compared to 1.0% PCE for the homopolymer blend [125].
The improved performance in the copolymer system was attributed to the lamellar structure of the active layer, the face-on orientation of the copolymer, and the conjugation across the donor–acceptor interface.
Resonant soft X-ray scattering was employed to reveal the lamellar morphology of the active layer, featuring alternating donor and acceptor lamella, oriented normal to the substrate (Figure 9).
Finally, the nature of the coupling between donor and acceptor components significantly impacts the exciton dissociation process [131]; in this instance, the conjugated link between the donor and acceptor appears to be more effective at generating charge than the intermolecular interface between donor and acceptor homopolymers.
Resonant soft X-ray scattering data showing a well-defined primary scattering peak, q*, and a weak second-order peak, 2q*, indicating the presence of lamellar domains in donor–acceptor block copolymer P3HT-b-PFTBT, with a period of d = 18 nm.
In some OPV systems, the donor and acceptor become finely mixed and do not form networks of nanoscale domains that are needed for efficient charge photogeneration and collection.
For the thiophene-capped diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) small molecule donor shown in Figure 10A, pure DPP films prepared using a stepwise procedure for promoting self-assembly exhibited crystalline grains; however, upon introduction of a fullerene acceptor, phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), DPP assembly was disrupted, resulting in an OPV efficiency of 0.24% [132].
Hydrogen bonding between donor and acceptor has been used to control the distribution and stability of fullerene aggregates in solar cell active layers.
An electron donating block copolymer of P3HT-b-poly[3-(2,5,8,11-tetraoxadodecane)thiophene] (P3HT-b-P3TODT) was synthesized and blended with electron acceptor bisphenyl C61-butyric acid (bis-PCBA), allowing hydrogen bonding to take place between the tetraether sidechain of the P3TODT block and the carboxylic acid of the bis-PCBA [138].
TEM experiments indicated that the bis-PCBA acceptor selectively segregated to the P3TODT regions where hydrogen bonding between the donor and acceptor can take place.
This enhanced stability was attributed to a reduced diffusion of the fullerene due to the fullerene being hydrogen bonded to the copolymer donor [138].
In another study looking to increase stability, a “three-point” complementary hydrogen bonding scheme was employed, in which three hydrogen bonds are simultaneously formed between donor and acceptor [139,140,141].
Structure of copolymer donor P3HT-b-P3IOA and fullerene acceptor PCBP, along with the three-point hydrogen bonding between the compounds.
The addition of fullerene acceptor PCBP led to an increase in the nanowire diameter, indicating that the PCBP was hydrogen bonding to P3HT-b-P3IOA at the surface of the nanowire to generate a core-shell structure.
These improvements were associated with the presence of bicontinuous donor and acceptor nanodomains, about 30 nm in width, and an altered distribution of P3HT and PCBM throughout the active layer.
Interfacial segregation during active layer formation commonly leads to a gradient in the proportion of donor and acceptor at different film depths [153,154,155].
A more uniform distribution of donor and acceptor throughout the depth of the film is expected to lead to improved charge percolation.
This approach can be used to generate interlocking assemblies with intimate contact between donor and acceptor.
XPS measurements show the carbon 1s peak shifting to higher energy, and narrowing, which is consistent with improved charge transfer at the donor–acceptor interface.
Limiting the self-assembly of π-stacking small molecules through the addition of side chains, or the formation of dimers, has been effective for tuning domain size, resulting in some of the highest documented efficiencies for non-fullerene acceptors.
Block copolymers have also been used to assemble appropriately-sized donor and acceptor domains with an alternating lamellar arrangement.
Moreover, shape complementarity enabled performance improvements through intimate interfacial contact between donor and acceptor.
To date, in the development of highly efficient OPVs, fullerene and their derivatives are dominantly used as electron acceptor layers1–3.
However, although fullerenes demonstrate excellent electron mobilities, efficient charge extraction in OPV devices still requires an Electron Transport and Exciton Blocking Layer (ETL and EBL, respectively) with well-matched energy levels, that is integrated between the electron acceptor layer and the metal cathode, in order to minimize any interface losses4–9.
A plain interface between the metal cathode and the fullerene acceptor layer gives rise to multiple losses, be that due to insufficient exciton blocking or recombination effects.
In order to enhance the electron collection efficiently in OPVs and to reduce potential exciton losses at the fullerene-metal interface, it is thus common to sandwich proper ETL and EBL in between the fullerene acceptor and metal cathode6–9,11,12.
The combined ETL and EBL may also act as a protective layer for the acceptor from damage during the metal deposition6,10,11,13.
The LUMO level of the formed Ag-BCP complex aligns with the LUMO level of the fullerene acceptor layers, which facilitates the efficient electron transport seen in the OPV devices22.
In this work, we assess the impact of BCP as electron transport and exciton blocking layer on the performance of standard and inverted planar heterojunction OPV devices consisting of Tetraphenyldibenzoperiflanthene (DBP) as donor and Fullerene (C70) as acceptor molecules.
A donor-acceptor (D-A) type indoline dye, D149, was used as an electron donor in solution-processed organic solar cells (OSCs).
For bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) type OSCs with PC70BM as electron acceptor, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) is sensitive to the amount of D149 in the D149/PC70BM blend film.
In order to improve the PCE of D149-based OSCs, a bilayer-heterojunction configuration with C70 as electron acceptor has been employed.
In OSCs, the photon-induced charge carriers are always generated at the interface between the p-type electron donor and n-type electron acceptor, and thus is followed by complicated charge transfer processes.
It is also a very effective way to tailor molecular donors as evidenced by the numerous reports on this type of material published in recent years [11,12].
In view of this, the indoline dye D149 (5-[[4-[4-(2,2-diphenylethenyl)phenyl]-1,2,3,3a,4,8b-hexahydrocyclopent[b]indol-7-yl]methylene]-2-(3-ethyl-4-oxo-2-thioxo-5-thiazolidinylidene)-4-oxo-3-thiazolidineacetic acid) is a very promising p-type donor candidate in OSCs.
In this study, we report the D149 dye as an electron donor for solution-processed OSCs.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that a highly efficient DSC dye sensitizer has been directly employed as the electron donor for both bulk- and bilayer-heterojunction OSCs.
The HOMO level of D149 is deep enough for a build-in potential with a fullerene-type electron acceptor, while the LUMO level is high enough for efficient interfacial charge transfer to PC70BM.
The absorption spectra for the donor D149 and the acceptor C70 and PC70BM are quite similar in the absorption region, but with differences in the density of each absorption peak.
In order to produce a large interface between the donor and acceptor molecules, solution-processed bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) devices based on a D149/PC70BM active layer were fabricated first.
This suggests that a low concentration of donor molecules in the blend film may play a different role in such a cell from that in other BHJ OPVs.
Similar phenomena have already been observed for thermally evaporated BHJ devices, in which concentrations of donor molecules as low as 5% gave the highest PV performance.
The mechanism has been partially attributed to Schottky barrier contact between the donor and MoOx layers [23], however, this is obviously not the case in our system, since replacing PEDOT:PSS with MoO3 gave a slightly lower PCE of 1.02%, with a Voc of 0.90 V, a Jsc of 3.72 mA·cm−2, and an FF of 0.31.
In order to achieve better PV performances, it is important to overcome the issue of the low carrier-mobility of the D149 donor molecule in OPV devices.
Obviously, the reduced PV performance with increased film thickness from 8 nm to 10 nm also supports the above theory, especially for donor molecules with relatively low carrier-mobility.
Moreover, about the charge separation mechanism in the present system, the clear EQE response from the absorption region of the D149 absorption peaks strongly suggests that the hot carriers was transferred to the acceptor molecules from the optically-transition-allowed electronic state of D149, as suggested in the investigation on carotenoid-based OSCs [24].
The thicknesses of the donor and acceptor layers in the bilayer device can substantially affect the OPV performance.
We studied the cross-coupling reactions of this dibromide and found that the highest yields of π-spacer–acceptor–π-spacer type compounds were obtained by means of the Stille reaction.
A detailed study of the optical and electrochemical properties of the obtained π-spacer–acceptor–π-spacer type compounds in comparison with isomeric structures based on benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BTD) showed a red shift of absorption maxima with lower absorptive and luminescent capacity.
Thus, a thorough selection of components in the designing of appropriate compounds with benzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole as an internal acceptor can lead to promising photovoltaic materials.
Benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BTD) appears to be one of the most widely used acceptor heterocycles in producing donor-acceptor materials for organic electronics [1,2,3,4].
The symmetric structures, in which the 4 and 7 positions of the benzothiadiazole ring are replaced by identical substituents, are widely used as monomers for the obtaining of donor-acceptor polymers, and for the synthesis of small molecules with various useful photovoltaic properties [5,6,7,8].
The strong electron-acceptor properties of BTD provide materials based on it with the necessary properties (band gap, charge transport properties, intra- and intermolecular interactions, etc.
), which can be fine-tuned by combining BTD with various donor or π-conjugated systems.
The success of the BTD fragment as a building block for donor-acceptor materials lies in its high electron affinity, which determines the energy of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (ELUMO).
Various methods are known to decrease the LUMO energy of the acceptors by adding electronegative groups, such as fluorine [11,12]; by using conjugated electron-deficient heterocycles [13,14]; and by replacing carbon atoms in aromatic systems with more electronegative atoms, such as nitrogen [15,16].
However, as we showed earlier by the example of condensation of 1,2,5-thiadiazole with more electron acceptor cycles than benzene (pyridine [15,17] and pyridazine [16,18]), a significant decrease of ELUMO (to −1.05 eV and −1.34 eV, respectively) is not always the key to success in producing highly efficient materials.
The Eg value for this proposed new internal acceptor is the highest among those heterocycles which electron-acceptor properties have been increased by one of the methods described above.
The most common ways to create a C-C bond between acceptor and donor or π-excess fragments are cross-coupling reactions or the direct C-H arylation between the acceptor dibromo derivatives and the corresponding π-spacer derivatives.
Herein, we describe the modified synthesis of 4,7-dibromobenzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole and their cross-coupling reactions with π-spacers for the preparation of π-spacer–acceptor–π-spacer conjugated molecules which are of interest as photovoltaic materials and study of their electrochemical and optical properties in comparison with corresponding of π–A–π type molecules based on benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole.
The intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) between the donor and acceptor parts of molecules is confirmed by the presence of a long-wave absorption maximum at 400–500 nm.
The increase in the conjugation chain with 2,2′-bithiophene and 4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene (CPDT) donors accompanies the red shift of the absorption maximum at a larger wavelength for both BTD 4d,f and isoBTD 3d,f series compared to the dyes 4a–c and 3a–c.
The bathochromic shift of the ICT band derivatives with CPDT donors 4f and 3f also indicates strong charge transfer properties among other donors.
For a number of isoBTD-based compounds, a direct correlation is observed between the shift of the ICT absorption maximum into the red region of the light spectra with an increase in the donorship of the substituents: compounds with 2,2-bithiophene 3d, CPDT 3f and 2,3-dihydrothieno[3,4-b][1,4]dioxine (EDOT) 3e π-spacers exhibit a shift in the second absorption maxima in the region of the long wavelength compared to five-membered heterocyclic substituents 3a–c.
Among the pairs of isomers that differ only in the order of the atoms in the acceptor cycle, there is a clear dependence in the shifts of the long-wave absorption maxima into the blue region of the spectra when passing from BTD derivatives to isoBTD.
The short-wave absorption maxima also follow a general pattern: compounds with the isoBTD acceptor show a bathochromic shift in comparison with their BTD analogues.
The observed bathochromic shift may be related to a lower stabilization of the LUMO energy level centered on the acceptor core in isoBTD than in BTD, caused by the asymmetry of the benzothiadiazole ring.
Probably, in this case, the strong donor nature of the CPDT substituents and the increased conjugation chain prevail over the contribution of the acceptor unit to the electronic structure of the molecule.
The Stokes shift for BTD derivatives is also significantly higher compared to analogous derivatives with the isoBTD acceptor, which is probably due to the more efficient ICT and a larger dipole moment of excited states of BTD derivatives [34].
The assumption that the symmetric nature of the BTD acceptor promotes intramolecular charge transfer is indirectly confirmed by the intensity of coloring of the solutions of the obtained compounds of the same concentration in daylight (Figure 5a) and under UV irradiation (Figure 5b).
2,2′-Bithiophene derivatives 3d and 4d demonstrate an inverse dependence again: the Stokes shift of compound 3d with isoBTD acceptor is larger than that of compound 4d with BTD acceptor.
Nevertheless, the wavelength values of the absorption maxima in the UV/vis spectra allow us to consider compounds based on the isoBTD acceptor as promising building blocks for the creation of new materials for organic electronics.
This fact, apparently, can be considered a confirmation of electron transfer to the BTD acceptor building block in the 4a–f dye series, since benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole, which has no substituents, is also reversibly reduced (Figure 7).
The addition of substituents, depending on their electron-donating properties and their ability to delocalize the electron, shifts the ER potential of both BTD and isoBTD derivatives into the positive region of potentials in relation to the acceptor potentials, and in series 3a–c,e and 4a–c,e these shifts, caused by the same substituents, are almost identical in pairs.
The values of EO potentials primarily determine the donor contribution of substituents to the electronic structure of dyes.
This may be due to the more efficient conjugation in BTD systems due to the symmetry of benzo[d][3,2,1]thiadiazole core, and compounds with strong donor substituents appear to be most sensitive to this factor.
The addition of strong donor substituents (EDOT 3e,4e and CPDT 3f,4f) leads to a significant decrease in the EO potential compared to compounds with five-membered heterocyclic substituents (3a–c,4a–c), both in the series BTD and in the series isoBTD derivatives.
Interestingly, compound 3d with the 2,2′-bithiophene substituent also has a reduced EO potential compared to the 3a–c, derivatives, which is consistent with the increased donor strength of this substituent and the extended five-membered system conjugation chain in 3d.
In general, the value of the band gap decreases with increasing donor strength of the substituents: the minimum values are observed for compounds with CPDT substituents 3f and 4f.
During the transition from BTD derivatives to isomeric compounds with the isoBTD acceptor, an increase in Eg is observed for all pairs of synthesized compounds except for the 2,2′-bithiophene derivatives 3d and 4d.
The study of different variants of the Suzuki, Stille, and the direct C-H heteroarylation cross-coupling reactions showed that the most stable results in obtaining π–A–π-type structures based on the isoBTD internal acceptor were achieved in the Stille reaction.
In the UV/vis spectra of the series of π–A–π compounds, a red shift of the absorption maxima is predominantly observed in the transition from compounds based on the BTD acceptor to compounds with isoBTD, and in almost all cases a lower absorption capacity is observed for compounds of isoBTD type as well as a less intense luminescence in the corresponding spectra.
Thus, we found that the electron acceptor unit 4,7-dibromobenzo[d][1,2,3]thiadiazole 1, which is easily obtained in two steps with high yields from commercially available reagents, can exhibit promising properties in an appropriate design of LED and solar cell components.
In this work, microwave synthesis, chemical, optical and electrochemical characterization of three small organic molecules, TPA-TPD, TPA-PT-TPD and TPA-TT-TPD with donor-acceptor structure and their use in organic photovoltaic cells are reported.
These molecules were employed as electron-donors in the active layer for manufacturing bulk heterojunction organic solar cells, where [6,6]-phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) was used as electron-acceptor.
The synthesis strategy of SMs for OSCs applications has focused mainly on molecules where an electron donating fragment (donor D) is covalently bounded to an electron withdrawing fragment (acceptor A) obtaining a Donor-Acceptor structure.
There are a large variety of acceptor fragments used in the synthesis of SMs; one of them is 5-(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6(5H)-dione (TPD), which is attractive because it is symmetric, compact and rigid [28,29].
These properties make TPD an attractive acceptor fragment for the design and synthesis of molecules for OSCs applications.
On the other hand, as a strategy for the SMs synthesis, triphenylamine (TPA) is used because it is a good electron donating molecule [39], then, together with TPD as electron withdrawing fragment, molecules under the donor-acceptor structure are obtained.
It is because TPA groups act as donor groups of the electronic density, while TPD molecules act as an acceptor of the electronic density, so we conclude that electronic architecture for the three SMs is D-A-D.
Figure 3b shows the comparison of the HOMO-LUMO energies for the three molecules with respect to those for PC71BM, which is used as an electron acceptor material in OSCs.
According to the HOMO-LUMO energy levels, it is expected that the TPA-TPD molecule has the highest VOC value among the three SMs when it is used as donor in the active layer of a solar cell (from the theoretical point of view, VOC should be 1.14 V if PC71BM is used as electron acceptor) [27], while the TPA-TT-TPD molecule will present a lower value of VOC (1.04 V).
On the other hand, for a proper exciton dissociation, it is required a minimum of 0.3 eV difference between the LUMO of the donor molecule and the LUMO of the PC71BM.
OSCs were fabricated under the BHJ approach by using TPA-TPD, TPA-PT-TPD and TPA-TT-TPD as electron donors and PC71BM as the electron acceptor in the active layer.
For the TPA-PT-TPD and TPA-TT-TPD chemical structures, nitriles groups, which are electro-acceptors, were introduced.
These morphology irregularities could be since TPA-PT-TPD and TPA-TT-TPD are not completely miscible with the PC71BM (in these two cases, a smaller amount of the acceptor was used; see Table 2).
The composite active layer was then used to make planar heterojunction solar cells with the PCBM film as the electron-acceptor.
High-efficiency is achieved in BHJ PSCs via the blend of a photoactive polymer with an electron-acceptor (e.g.
Due to these characteristics, s-SWCNT is the ideal donor material for this research [34,35].D.Fullerene (60) or C60 is composed of 60 carbons, with 20 hexagonal and 12 pentagonal sections.
Depending on their properties, it can be employed in thermal evaporation systems as electron acceptors.
C60 fullerene can be better as an electron acceptor since it is more compatible and can deliver suitable composites with the donor material [36].E.One of the most common ETLs in PSCs and OSCs is Titanium Dioxide (TiO2).
Due to these characteristics, s-SWCNT is the ideal donor material for this research [34,35].
Depending on their properties, it can be employed in thermal evaporation systems as electron acceptors.
C60 fullerene can be better as an electron acceptor since it is more compatible and can deliver suitable composites with the donor material [36].
The BHJ sandwiched between the ETL and HTL is a blend of donor and acceptor with discrete band gaps.
Aluminum metal is used as the cathode, TiOx is used as the ETL, the electron donor is s-SWCNT, while the electron acceptor is C60 fullerene, since an HTL PSS is utilized and ITO is used as the anode.
The BHJ-based TOSC is defined by sandwiching a blend of donor and acceptor between the ETL and HTL to form a junction.
Donor and acceptor materials are completely mixed in polymer BHJ.
To achieve 100% efficiency in exciton separation, the mixed layer has created a donor-acceptor interface that is spatially distributed.
Moreover, the TOSC structure is composed of the cathode aluminum metal, TiOx as ETL, electron donor s-SWCNT, electron acceptor C60 fullerene, PEDOT:PSS as HTL, and ITO as the anode.
The Voc value is solely determined by the differential between the donor HOMO and acceptor LUMO, and there is a slight change in Voc by the active layer thickness.
Despite their record PCEs, most donor–acceptor conjugated copolymers in combination with non-fullerene acceptors are still far from upscaling due to their high cost and SC.
Here we present a non-halogenated and low SC ink formulation for the PAL of organic solar cells, comprising PTQ10 and PC61BM as donor and acceptor materials, respectively, showing a record PCE of 7.5% in blade coated devices under 1 sun, and 19.9% under indoor LED conditions.
2 and 3) depending on the light emission spectrum (warm/cold light-emitting diodes (LEDs) or fluorescent lighting) and intensity (50–2000 lux), which broadly outperform the figures provided by competing technologies such as crystalline silicon.4 The promised unique traits of OPV compared to its inorganic and hybrid counterparts (mainly represented by silicon- and perovskite-based PV) are their low cost, environmentally-friendly processing and sustainability.5–7 These are, however, still compromised by the use of hazardous halogenated solvents to deposit the photoactive layer (PAL) and the large synthetic complexity8 (SC) of its raw materials, namely the donor (p-type) and acceptor (n-type) semiconductors.
Regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) represents the archetypal p-type conjugated homopolymer in OPV with the lowest SC up to date (7.6%, see Table S1†),8,10 which already opened the possibility to be synthetized in gram-sized, continuous-flow batches.11 Accordingly, P3HT has been widely studied in potential upscalable combinations with fullerene12 and non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).13–16 In combination with NFAs, P3HT blends have reached close to 9.5% PCE (under 1 sun) in binary bulk heterojunctions (BHJs)16,17 by exploiting the chemical tunability of their structures and the positioning of their frontier energy levels (highest occupied molecular orbital, HOMO; and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital, LUMO).
However, the SC of the best performing NFAs is at least doubling that of the workhorse fullerene-based acceptors such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), which hinders their adoption onto industrial scenarios (Fig.
(b) Chemical structures of the donor (PTQ10) and acceptor (PC61BM) materials used in this work.
To limit the extension of the parameter space, the donor-to-acceptor ratio is kept fixed at 1 : 1.5 (w/w) throughout the experiments, targeting a total solid content of 30–50 g L−1.
Such record PCE value lies among the highest ever reported for a donor:acceptor blend based on PC61BM (see Fig.
The proposed blend includes PTQ10 as donor polymer and PC61BM as fullerene acceptor, which is a particularly appealing combination for upscaling due to its inherent low synthetic complexity and the use of non-halogenated co-solvents such as o-xylene and diphenyl ether.
As shown in Figure 1c, the LUMO of CNT (1.6 eV) is much higher than the LUMO of either donor P3HT (3.2 eV) or acceptor (3.74 eV), showing that CNT can efficiently block the backflow electron from indene-C60 bisadduct (ICBA) to Al electrode.
The work function of LZO is 4.6 eV, which is moderately aligned with that of ICBA and can supply good electron extraction from the ICBA acceptor phase.
It is understood that the LZO interlayer can supply good electron extraction from the ICBA acceptor because of their moderately aligned conduction band.
Some shallow donor levels in ZnO may give rise to n-type conduction.
The results clearly indicate that Li atoms substitute Zn in the Zn site to form shallow acceptor levels and p-type doping takes place in ZnO lattice.
The increase in Madelung energy has been thought to facilitate the localization of such acceptor states [55].
A theory predicts that the presence of Li in the ZnO matrix prefers the interstitial sites (electron donor) over substitutional sites (acceptor) and thus n-type dopes ZnO.
Shallow donors were experimentally tested in regard to Li atoms on ZnO.
The photovoltaic properties of the compounds were evaluated in bulk heterojunctions with a fullerene acceptor and showed moderate performance as a consequence of suboptimal morphologies, bimolecular recombination, and triplet‐state formation.
The LUMO–LUMO offsets between the DPP compounds and the electron acceptor [6,6]‐phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid methyl ester ([60]PCBM)17 are much higher than the threshold for efficient charge dissociation (≈0.3 eV) and indicate electron‐donor character of the DPP compounds relative to [60]PCBM.
The photoactive layers were spin‐coated from chloroform solution with a 2:1 donor:acceptor weight ratio.
The device performance was fully optimized in terms of device structure, donor:acceptor ratio, thermal annealing, and SVA.
Hole mobilities μ h were estimated from hole‐only ITO/PEDOT:PSS/DPP:[60]PCBM/MoO3/Ag devices after CB SVA by fitting the J–V data to a space‐charge‐limited current model, which resulted in a μ h value of about 10−5 cm2 V−1 s−1 for all three donors (Figure 5 c).
The photoluminescence emission of the DPPs is considerably quenched after blending with [60]PCBM as a consequence of exciton dissociation at the interface between the donor and the acceptor (Figure S4, Supporting Information).
Photovoltaic devices with the three DPP compounds as donor and [60]PCBM as acceptor perform poorly.
The dissociation of photogenerated excitons and the subsequent spatial separation of the charges are of crucial importance to the design of efficient donor-acceptor heterojunction solar cells.
We use x-ray diffraction, photoluminescence quenching, transient absorption spectroscopy, photovoltaic device and electroluminescence measurements to demonstrate that the dissociation of photogenerated polaron pairs at hybrid heterojunctions is assisted by the presence of crystalline electron acceptor domains.
The present findings suggest that the requirement for a large driving energy for charge separation is relaxed when a more crystalline electron acceptor is used.
It is commonly considered that the generation of free charges at a donor:acceptor heterojunction results from the dissociation of a photogenerated exciton to generate a bound complex with charge transfer (CT) character, and the separation of this CT complex into fully dissociated charge carriers (Figures 1a & 1b)8910.
In order to determine the limiting efficiency of heterojunction solar cells we need to establish the relationship between the nominal interfacial driving energy (defined here as the difference between the LUMO of the donor and the LUMO or conduction band of the acceptor, ΔECS), the degree of local ordering and the charge separation efficiency.
An alternative system is the hybrid polymer:inorganic heterojunction where a nanostructured inorganic phase acts as electron acceptor.
We use steady state photoluminescence (PL) and transient absorption spectroscopy (TAS) to show that the yield of photogenerated charges is correlated to the crystallinity of the inorganic acceptor phase, as ascertained by x-ray diffraction (XRD), and that such crystallinity reduces the need for a large ΔECS.
The charge recombination dynamics were determined by monitoring the decay of the photoinduced polaron band of the donor polymer; control measurements performed in aerobic and anaerobic conditions indicate that the data presented in Figure 3 are due to photogenerated polarons rather than triplets (see SI Figure S5).
In conclusion, the present findings suggest that the energy cost associated with separating excitons and bound polaron pairs can be reduced by the use of better ordered donor and acceptor domains.
In the current case, it is likely that the more crystalline acceptor encourages charge delocalization, thereby easing the requirement of excess free energy and offering a potential design strategy to optimize charge separation and device performance.
To study this, organic solar films composed of both fullerene C60 as electron acceptor and different mole percentages of di-[4-(N,N-di-p-tolyl-amino)-phenyl]-cyclohexane (TAPC) as electron donor were evaporated in vacuum in different mixing ratios (5, 50 and 95 mol%) on an ITO-coated glass substrate held at room temperature and at 110 °C.
In addition to the variation done in the substrate temperature, the variation of the mole percent of the donor (TAPC) was studied to conclude the effect of both the substrate temperature and the donor concentration on the microstructure of the OSC films.
Bragg peaks were attributed to C60 in the pure C60 sample and in the blend with low donor mole percentage (5%), but the C60 peaks became nondiscernible when the donor mole percentage was increased to 50% and above, showing that TAPC interrupted the formation of C60 crystals.
High-efficiency organic solar cells are most commonly based on a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure, consisting of a thin film of mixed electron donor and acceptor molecules.
To achieve high-power efficiency, the donor: acceptor concentration needs to be adjusted for optimum light absorption and charge carrier extraction.
It was shown that a large open-circuit voltage (Voc > 1.0 V) can be achieved in fullerene-based OSC with almost any donor, provided that the donor is in low concentration.
It was shown in another study that intermolecular charge-transfer (CT) excitons (an exciton is a bound state of an electron and a hole, which are bound to each other by the electrostatic coulomb force) in the C60: TAPC dilute BHJs rapidly localize to Frenkel excitons prior to dissociating at the donor–acceptor interface.
Based on the outcomes of the above studies showing the potential of the dilute C60: TAPC as BHJ blends, in our research, the low donor concentration (5 mol% TAPC) was investigated as the optimum donor concentration and was compared with high donor concentration of 50 and 95 mol% and with the pure C60 sample with variant substrate temperatures.
Knowledge of the microscopic structure of a bulk heterojunction is crucial to obtaining a detailed picture of the local environment in which both the donor and the acceptor are located, such that the optoelectronic properties of such materials can be predicted more accurately [20].
Figure 1 shows the 3D structure of the acceptor (C60) colored in yellow and the donor (TAPC) colored in green and white in Figure 1a,b, respectively.
Figure 1c shows the pure C60 sample, and Figure 1d shows the C60 with 5 mol% of the donor (TAPC).
 Modification of ligand-free polymer/CuInS2 absorber layers led to improved solar cell performance and charge carrier lifetimes.Bulk heterojunction solar cells based on conjugated polymer donors and fullerene-derivative acceptors have received much attention in the last decade.
Alternative acceptors like organic non-fullerene acceptors or inorganic nanocrystals have been investigated to a lesser extent; however, they also show great potential.
Non-fullerene acceptors have become a major research topic in the organic solar cell community over the past few years.
Besides organic non-fullerene acceptors, which have experienced an impressive increase in efficiency since 2013, inorganic nanocrystals are further promising acceptors in bulk heterojunction solar cells based on conjugated polymers.
Inorganic nanocrystals were introduced as acceptors in solar cells by Alivisatos et al.1 in the year 2002 and due to the combination of organic and inorganic components, the term hybrid solar cells became common for this type of solar cell.
With PPD–BDT as a conjugated polymer, consisting of pyrrolopyridazinedione (PPD) acceptor units and benzodithiophene (BDT) donor units,42 very similar results as for PCDTBT are obtained (see Table S1, ESI†).
AbstractHerein, we report the first example of a crystalline metal–donor–fullerene framework, in which control of the donor–fullerene mutual orientation was achieved through chemical bond formation, in particular, by metal coordination.
The 13C cross‐polarization magic‐angle spinning NMR spectroscopy, X‐ray diffraction, and time‐resolved fluorescence spectroscopy were performed for comprehensive structural analysis and energy‐transfer (ET) studies of the fulleretic donor–acceptor scaffold.
We envision that the well‐defined fulleretic donor–acceptor materials could contribute not only to the basic science of fullerene chemistry but would also be used towards effective development of organic photovoltaics and molecular electronics.
The success of fullerenes and their derivatives in engineering organic photovoltaics and molecular electronics is mainly owed to their electron‐accepting properties and ultrafast electron/energy transfer.1, 2 As previously demonstrated, fullerene(acceptor)–donor alignment could significantly affect excitonic device performance.
For instance, the arrangement of the donor fullerene is crucial for efficient energy/charge transfer, because of possible effects on the distance of exciton diffusion, π–π stacking, or Förster radius (resonance energy transfer).
There are few known reports of spatial organization of graphitic crystalline materials through the covalent linkage of fullerene derivatives.4, 5, 6, 7, 8 Moreover, the known approaches for fulleretic material organization are mainly based on immobilization of the fullerenes inside porous matrices possessing a large aperture.9, 10, 11 There are very few reports of crystalline fullerene–metal‐coordinated extended structures.12, 13, 14, 15 Furthermore, none of these studies explore the concept demonstrated herein, which tackles the development of a novel crystalline metal‐donor–acceptor framework, in which control of the mutual orientation of the donor and fullerene‐based acceptor was achieved through chemical bond formation, that is, metal coordination.
Despite the tremendous interest in self‐assemblies (in particular, coordination polymers such as covalent or metal–organic frameworks; COFs or MOFs)16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and fullerene chemistry, to the best of our knowledge the prepared metal–organic fullerene‐containing framework is the first example of a crystalline hybrid‐extended structure, in which control over mutual orientation of both donor and fullerene‐based acceptor is achieved through metal coordination (Scheme 1).
A schematic representation of organization of porphyrin‐based donors and fullerene‐based electron‐accepting linkers in the crystalline network 1 through metal coordination.
To study the photophysical properties and energy‐transfer processes (i.e., key components for development of any photonic device), and perform a comprehensive analysis of the donor–acceptor MOF, 13C cross‐polarization magic‐angle spinning (CP‐MAS) solid‐state NMR spectroscopy, powder X‐ray diffraction, and time‐resolved fluorescence spectroscopy were employed.
Furthermore, combination of photoluminescence measurements with theoretical calculations of the spectral overlap function, Förster radius, excitation energies, scaffold potential‐energy profile, and band structure were used to shed light on the photophysical processes occurring between porphyrin‐based donor and fullerene‐containing electron‐accepting linkers.
These facts result in a significant challenge for the synthesis of fullerene‐containing linkers in quantities not only sufficient for material preparation but also comprehensive characterization for further photophysical studies of the hybrid donor–fullerene frameworks.
For self‐assembly of the donor–acceptor framework, porphyrin‐containing ligands were chosen as donors because of their (i) typically large absorption coefficients in the visible region, (ii) rigid molecular structures necessary for the chosen synthetic strategy, (iii) behavior as molecular tweezers towards fullerene‐containing compounds,35 and iv) facile charge/energy transfer previously observed in molecular fullerene–porphyrin ensembles.36
To engineer the proposed donor–fullerene crystalline hybrids, we have applied a synthetic procedure, which is based on organization of porphyrin‐based donors in two‐dimensional layers, followed by the installation of the fullerene‐based ligands between them (Scheme 1 and Figure S4).
As previously shown, reactions of tetrakis(4‐carboxyphenyl)porphyrin (H4TCPP) linkers with metal salts (in the absence of BPCF) led to the formation of two‐dimensional planar Zn2(ZnTCPP) layers, in which the porphyrin‐containing donors were connected through Zn2(O2C‐) secondary building units (SBUs).37 Figure S3 shows that the solvent molecules occupy the apical positions of the Zn2(O2C‐)4 SBUs and could be replaced by different linkers which connect two adjacent Zn2(ZnTCPP) layers (Figure S4).
Thus, Zn2+ ions in Zn2(O2C‐)4 could be used as anchor points for arrangement of the fullerene‐based acceptors by coordinative immobilization between the layers.
Coordinative immobilization of both linkers inside the rigid donor–acceptor framework 1 was also confirmed based on a combination of 13C CP‐MAS and 1H NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (Figure 2).
Thus, to the best of our knowledge, we prepared the first example of a crystalline covalently linked metal–donor–fullerene network.
As clearly visible by the naked eye, immobilization of the fullerene‐based linker, BPCF, resulted in significant quenching of the PL response in comparison with the two‐dimensional Zn2(ZnTCPP) framework containing exclusively porphyrin‐containing donors (Figure 4).
The lifetime decrease observed in 1 could be explained by activation of non‐radiative pathways, among which Förster (or fluorescence) resonance energy transfer (FRET) is a commonly attributed pathway in a MOF matrix.45, 46 FRET relies on the transfer of excitation energy in a non‐radiative fashion through long‐range dipole–dipole interactions, for which donor emission and acceptor absorption profiles must overlap.
Indeed, Figure 4 demonstrates a significant overlap of Zn2(ZnTCPP) (donor) emission and BPCF (acceptor) absorption.
To further explore the possibility of FRET in 1, the Förster critical radius (R o) was estimated through calculation of the spectral overlap function, J (J=2.34×10−15 cm3  m −1), between the donor and the acceptor (see the Supporting Information for more details).
On the basis of the calculated J, we estimated R o to be 18.8 Å, which is beyond the donor–acceptor distance approximated from the structural data.
The forgoing results demonstrate a synthetic strategy for preparation of a donor–fullerene crystalline extended structure, in which precise orientation of the donor versus acceptor was achieved through metal coordination.
In the course of these studies, the single‐crystal X‐ray structure of fullerene‐based acceptor, BPCF, was also determined.
Time‐resolved PL studies were utilized to estimate the spectral overlap function as well as ET efficiency in the prepared fulleretic crystalline donor‐acceptor material.
Furthermore, the acquired PL data in combination with theoretical calculations (e.g., Förster radius, excitation energies, band structure, and spectral overlap function) were utilized to shed light on photophysics of the prepared fulleretic donor–acceptor scaffold.
Since organization of fullerene‐based acceptors at the nanoscale level and their mutual orientation with the donor molecules is demanded by a variety of practical applications, we envision that these studies could contribute not only in the basic science of fullerene chemistry but also in the development of the next generation of organic photovoltaics and molecular electronics.
However, due to the small atomic diameter and the ambivalent character of hydrogen, hydrogen can intercalate into oxides and act as a donor or acceptor of electrons456, being the origin of various optical and electronic effects with many applications.
In this work, by engineering the interfacial HIL between the graphene electrode and the organic donor layer, we find that the performance and yield of graphene based-OPV devices become close to those of devices using ITO electrodes.
PEDOT:PEG(PC) alone, however, is not suitable for mediating hole injection between graphene and an adjacent donor material due to its lower work function (4.3 eV) than PEDOT:PSS (5.2 eV).
This D-HIL serves two roles: the PEDOT:PEG(PC) layer facilitates the wetting of the PEDOT:PSS HIL on graphene; while the PEDOT:PSS layer, with its higher work function and high carrier density, serves as an energetic intermediate between graphene's shallower Fermi level and the donor material's deeper highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO).
It shows that the compound can absorb light and can transfer 90.70 % of the energy from light is transferred to the acceptor system, here the semiconducting material.
In organic solar cells (OSCs), fullerene-based materials were initially used as acceptors in bulk heterojunction organic solar cells (OSCs).
It is a non-fused fullerene-free electron acceptor material with 0.85 V open circuit voltage and 7.03% power conversion efficiency with PBDB-TF donor material.35 It can be noticed that these factors can be improved.
So, seven new W-shaped non-fused organic solar cell molecules were fabricated in this research work by bringing about different changes in acceptor portions of A3T-5 molecule, as shown in Fig.
However, they have different acceptor subunits, such as W1 contains “2-(6-methyl-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malononitrile”, W2 has “2-(6-methylene-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-5H-indeno[5,6-b]thiophen-5-ylidene)malononitrile”, W3 possesses “2-(6-methylene-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[b]thieno[2,3-d]thiophen-5-ylidene)malononitrile” W4 comprises “2-(2-bromo-6-methylene-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-5H-indeno[5,6-b]thiophen-5-ylidene)malononitrile” W5 has “2-(5-methylene-1-(methylthio)-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)malononitrile” W6 consists of “dimethyl 1-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-5,6-dicarboxylate” and W7 has “2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)malononitrile” groups as electron acceptor subunits on both sides of terthiophene based non-fused core.
By using these different electron acceptors, it is possible to tune up the efficiency of the A3T-5 molecule by decreasing the band gap, improving the absorption of light, increasing open circuit voltage and enhancing other optoelectronic parameters.37
Molecular designing scheme for seven new acceptors based on the core atom of A3T-5, by replacing its terminal structures with seven W1 to W7 terminal structures.
Role of different components (acceptor and donor regions) in light absorption was investigated using DOS analysis.48 The data was visualized using the PyMOlyze-1.1 software package.49 The data from the transition density matrix (TDM) data were evaluated using the Multiwfn 3.8 wave function analyzer.50 Internal reorganization energy plays a critical role in the efficient transfer of charges.
The geometries of ions reveal charge transition from a donor region to an acceptor region of a molecule.52
All the molecules have two portions, i.e., the donor region in the center and the acceptor region at the terminals.
On the contrary, all the molecules have different acceptor subunits.
Therefore, the degrees of planarity and extent of optimization of molecules were estimated by evaluating the bond lengths and angles between adjoining C–C atoms in donor and terminal acceptor portions.
The small bond angle between the donor–acceptor carbon atoms indicates that each molecule is very planar.
Bond length (Å) and bond angle (θ°) values for C atoms linking donor and acceptor units in all compounds under study
In the A3T-5 molecule, the bond angle between adjacent C atoms of donor and acceptor regions is 0.6264° which is quite a small value.
It shows that the molecule's acceptor and donor regions are considerably planer.
These values show that all the designed molecules also have a minimal bond angle between donor and acceptor regions which clears that all these molecules are highly planer in nature.
The bond angle between neighboring C–C atoms of donor and acceptor subunits is the same, i.e., 1.41 Å in the case of all the molecules under study.
It shows that the carbon atoms which are linking donor and acceptor regions with each other are neither completely single-bonded nor double-bonded due to π-conjugation.
Electronegative CN groups are present in the acceptor regions, which can shorten the bond length by pulling the electrons more strongly toward themselves.
A highly planar molecular structure is generally preferred for the active layer in OSCs, as it allows for better overlap between the orbitals of the donor–acceptor materials, which is necessary for efficient charge transfer.
If the MPP and SDP are too high, it reduces the overlap between the donor and acceptor molecules, which can decrease efficiency.
On the other hand, if the MPP and SDP are too low, it can lead to a significant enhancement in the overlap between the donor and acceptor molecules, which can result in an increase in efficiency.
This shows that all these molecules have high stability and can show better overlap between the molecular orbitals of the donor and acceptor regions which is vital for enhanced efficiency of OSCs.
The energy levels of molecular orbitals significantly impact OSCs since these orbitals influence the process of transfer of charges from the donor to the acceptor.58,59 FMOs represent the dispersion of charge density between the ground and excited state energy levels.60 The electron excitation process involves effectively transferring electrons from HOMO to LUMO.
FMO analysis was done to determine the influence of new acceptors on the charge transfer process.
It can be observed from the data that almost all our newly designed molecules possess HOMO energy levels at higher energy values than the A3T-5 (reference) molecule due to strong electron-withdrawing acceptors present at peripheral portions.
4 illustrates the energy levels of HOMO residing mainly in the donor regions of all molecules.
When it comes to LUMO, the electron density resides on the donor and acceptor parts.
Nevertheless, compared to HOMO, the electron density is shifted towards the terminal electron withdrawing acceptors in LUMO of all the investigated molecules.
The electronic cloud is shifted towards the peripheral regions due to the existence of strong electron-pulling acceptors.
After careful analysis, it can be observed that the spread of electron density towards LUMO of acceptor regions is maximum in W3 and W7 due to increased conjugation in these molecules.
Overall, the shift of charge from donor to terminal acceptor regions in all molecules shows that the phenomenon of intramolecular CT is occurring in all these molecules, making them capable of being used as efficient OSCs.
For intramolecular CT, if the EA of the acceptor portion is high, it will pull the charges more strongly, and charges will move from the donor to the acceptor region.66 This movement of charges enhances the charge transport and, ultimately, the performance of OSCs.
For an in-depth analysis, each molecule was subdivided into its two functional units, the central donor/core portion and the terminal acceptors.
This makes it possible to precisely check the acceptor and donor regions of the molecule to see whether each part is most likely to function as a HOMO or LUMO contributor.68
The contribution of the core/donor part is indicated by the red shade band, while the acceptor is represented by green shade, and the combined role of donor and acceptor portions is marked by the black colored band.69
It can be observed that the donor portion of each molecule is majorly associated with the development of HOMO (indicated by the percentage contribution in Table 3).
In comparison, LUMO energy levels are majorly contributed by acceptor regions in all the molecules.
We know that charges move from donor to acceptor portions and also from HOMO to LUMO.
The higher percentage contribution of LUMO in acceptor regions is advantageous for improved CT from donor to acceptor regions.
This is because most of its donor part acts as HOMO, while most of its acceptor part acts as LUMO.
The HOMO of W3 is contributed by donor and acceptor regions by 71.7% and 28.3%, respectively.
In comparison, the LUMO of W3 is raised to 71.5% by the acceptor and 28.5% by the donor region.
These attributes facilitate the transfer of charges from the donor to the acceptor region.70 Furthermore, these results coincide with the outcomes of FMO analysis, which shows that all these molecules can be used as improved OSCs.
W7 molecule exhibits maximum λmax in the gaseous phase due to its extensive conjugated network in acceptor regions as compared to all other molecules, as shown in ESI† (ESI-1 & ESI-2).
Four –COOCH3 groups are attached to the acceptor units of the W6 molecule.
MEP analysis discloses the excellent distribution of the electron density in newly proposed molecules (W1 to W7) from donor to acceptor regions.
The blue color is retained by donor terthiophene regions (positive region).
At the same time, electronegative atoms in acceptor regions are marked red.
This shows that charges moved successfully from the donor to the terminals of acceptor units, and the phenomenon of intramolecular CT occurred in all these molecules.
It is due to the more oxygen (electronegative) atoms in acceptor regions of the W6 molecule.
W6 has –COOCH3 groups attached at its peripheral acceptors, which are capable of pulling the charges towards them very strongly, thus increasing the rate of charge mobility in this molecule.
For TDM analysis, all the investigated molecules are divided into two components, i.e., acceptor (A) and donor (D) regions (Fig.
A closer look shows that there are more bright fringes in acceptor regions of W3, W5 and W7 molecules.
Furthermore, it can be observed that these three molecules have significantly less area of dark spots in acceptor regions which shows that the ratio of excited electrons that moved from the D to A region is very high in the mentioned molecules.
This shows that the adjacently attached thiophene rings in the acceptor unit of W3 are performing better than other electron-withdrawing groups of other molecules in terms of more excitations of charges.
The reorganization energy (RE) of conjugated molecules is a degree of the CT between donor–acceptor portions.
Furthermore, W3 has a minimum value of λe, which means it has a better rate of flow of electrons and can perform extraordinarily in the process of charge transfer due to its extended conjugation framework consisting of thiophene rings in acceptor regions.
The maximum voltages of a solar device are regulated by the difference between energy levels of HOMO (donor), LUMO (acceptor), and rate of charge carrier generation and reassimilation.88,89 In general, a larger energy difference between the LUMO of the acceptor and the HOMO of the donor material results in higher efficiency because it allows the absorption of more energy from photons and facilitates a higher voltage output.90Voc may be regarded as the optimum amount of the voltages at the time when current across a circuit is minimal or approaches zero value.
In our computational assessment of engineered compounds, the Voc of molecules was calculated by using HOMO energy levels of J61 (a novel donor molecule) and LUMO ones of proposed molecules Fig.
Comparative representation of the Voc of molecules calculated by employing J61 donor.
The increased Voc of W3 can be attributed to its planner configuration and strong electron acceptor units, which pull the electronic cloud and increases the delocalization of electrons.
The Voc and FF of molecules can be further improved by using other proficient donor molecules like D-16.
While the electron acceptor of choice is still predominantly a fullerene derivative such as [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), an immense array of different light-absorbing electron-donor materials has been reported and encouragingly device efficiencies for single junction cells are approaching 10%.1,2 In this context, it is worth noting that all the highest performing OPV devices have been achieved with the use of solvent processing additives, additional organic extraction layers, or similar device engineering efforts.3–8 Although important for driving the field of organic photovoltaics forward, significant manufacturing challenges are associated with the increased complexity of the photovoltaic device.
Polymeric electron donor materials are typically designed using a push–pull strategy where electron-rich and electron-deficient π-conjugated motifs alternate along the polymer backbone, whereupon molecular orbital hybridization results in a narrow band gap material with good spectral overlap with the solar spectrum.
We note that a HOMO level around −5.2 eV and a band gap of roughly 1.5 eV are very encouraging characteristics for an OPV donor material designed to be used with fullerene acceptors due to a sufficient LUMO–LUMO offset and a good spectral overlap with the solar flux.31
The photovoltaic properties of BBTI-1 and BBTI-2 were examined in an inverted OPV device architecture with PC71BM as the electron acceptor material.
Importantly, both the BTT unit and the BTI unit have easily accessible sites for alkyl chain attachment, which facilitates rapid optimization of alkyl chain substitution pattern in order to achieve a soluble and processable high molecular weight polymeric material with optimum phase separation with fullerene acceptors.
This in turn generates an excellent blend morphology with the PC71BM acceptor without the need for solvent additives or thermal or solvent-assisted annealing steps during the device fabrication.
However, the mechanism differs from the Marcus picture often used to model small polaron hopping in OSs6, in that several molecules bridging initial donor and final acceptor may come simultaneously into energetic resonance resulting in hole transfer to a molecule beyond the nearest neighbor in a single hopping event.
d Diabatic (black dashed) and adiabatic free energy profiles (solid) for electron transfer between a donor and an acceptor, defining reorganization free energy, λ, average electronic coupling, V, and the parameter ξ determining existence and height of the barrier
d Diabatic (black dashed) and adiabatic free energy profiles (solid) for electron transfer between a donor and an acceptor, defining reorganization free energy, λ, average electronic coupling, V, and the parameter ξ determining existence and height of the barrier
Modifying the central core is a very efficient strategy to boost the performance of non-fullerene acceptors.
Herein five non-fullerene acceptors (M1–M5) of A–D–D′–D–A type were designed by substituting the central acceptor core of the reference (A–D–A′–D–A type) with different strongly conjugated and electron donating cores (D') to enhance the photovoltaic attributes of OSCs.
Although the highest photovoltaic aptitude as acceptors at the interface was perceived to be of M1, its highest band gap and lowest absorption maxima lowered its candidature as the best molecule.
Conclusively, each evaluated property commends the aptness of designed structures to augment the power conversion efficiency (PCE) in the field of optoelectronics in one way or another, which reveals that a central un-fused core having an electron-donating capability with terminal groups being significantly electron withdrawing, is an effective configuration for the attainment of promising optoelectronic parameters, and thus the proposed molecules could be utilized in future NFAs.Modifying the central core is a very efficient strategy to boost the performance of non-fullerene acceptors.
For the later layer, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have received more attention in recent years, as compared to their fullerene counterparts due to facile synthesis methods, lower fabrication costs, as well as easy tunability of band gap, which shifts the absorption to the maximum value (in UV, visible, and IR ranges).13–16
Till now, 18% PCE has been achieved with A–D–A′–D–A type Y-series NFAs, and it is seen that the push–pull effect between the acceptor and donor fragments is generally the reason behind their better efficiencies.17,18 The fused ring backbone of these NFAs allows for prominent planarity, which facilitates efficient charge transfer, better π–π stacking19,20, and increased absorption in the UV-vis region.21 However, the complex fabrication of these structures with a minimum of five to fifteen steps leads to a reduced yield and an increased cost in their production.22–24 In addition, due to the phenomenon of photo-oxidation, they are seen to have poor photostability when exposed to sunlight and air.
Thus, non-fused ring based NFAs were introduced, which are simply designed (in two to four steps) by separating the donor–acceptor components of the molecule with a single bond, which allows for higher yield, as well as lower cost.
To test this assumption, the central electron-accepting core (A') of the 2,2'-((2Z,2′Z)-(((2,5-difluoro-1,4-phenylene)bis(4,4-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b:3,4-b′]dithiophene-6,2-diyl))bis(methanylylidene))bis(3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene))dimalononitrile (DF-PCIC) molecule was replaced with different strongly conjugated and electron rich donor groups.
The reason behind the selection of DF-PCIC as the reference molecule was the weak and significantly low conjugated electron-withdrawing accepting core (which is to be substituted)26 attached to the strongly electron-donating donors.27,28
In A–D–A′–D–A type geometry of this remarkable DF-PCIC molecule, the central donor (A') core (2,5-difluorobenzene (DFB)) is linked to two electron-accepting end groups (2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-ylidene)malonitrile) via two electron-donating cyclopentadithiophene CPDT (D) units.
Its calculated values for open-circuit voltage; Voc, fill factor, short circuit current, and power conversion efficiency were 0.91 V, 72.62%, 15.66 mA cm−2, and 10.14%, respectively, when computed with the PBDB-T polymer donor.28 The relatively low Voc of DF-PCIC molecule was attributed to the electron-withdrawing fluoro groups bonded to the core ring of the molecule, which significantly lowered the LUMO value and thus reduced the relative Voc.28 With this in mind, the root cause of the low Voc, i.e., the electron accepting core (A') of the reference was replaced with various strongly conjugated and electron rich donor cores, so that possible higher Voc can be achieved while retaining the exceptional properties of the rest of the structure.
For the design of the five A–D–D′–D–A molecules, the DFB central acceptor core of the reference (A–D–A′–D–A type) was replaced with five different strongly electron-donating cores.47 The newly formulated molecules were then analyzed and paralleled to the reference molecule, in order to scrutinize the effect of substituted donor cores.
Thus, despite being designed theoretically in this research, their already reported donor cores have shown significant photovoltaic attributes when utilized in experimental synthesis of various chromophoric molecules and thus these molecules are also assumed to be capable of being synthesized accordingly.48–50 The sketched scheme of all compounds (using ChemDraw 7.0) of this study are presented in Fig.
The slight deviation within the dihedral angle of M1–M4 molecules from that of R might be helpful to the molecules in retaining the charge density within their respective fragments after effective intramolecular charge transfer.54 Individually, the higher dihedral angles of M1–M3 could be because of the vertical expanse of the attached large donor (D') cores, while the lowered one of M5 despite its bulky core, could be as a result of its horizontal expansion, which leads to a greater distance between the terminals of the molecule.
The larger dihedral angle of M4 in spite of its smaller donor core (somewhat similar to R) could be due to the lowered space between the bulky alkyl chains of CPDT donors, which might have caused the rotation of the molecule about the single bond.
The reason behind the absence of this anomaly in R, despite its somewhat similar structure to M4, could be due to the non-covalent interactions between the fluoro on the DFB (D') core and hydrogen on the CPDT (D) donors, explained in the literature.28
The dihedral angle only helps to determine the orientation of the D' core with respect to the CPDT donors.
Thus, to investigate the impact of the donor cores on the overall planarity of the molecules, span of deviation from plane (SDP) and molecular planarity parameter (MPP) were computed using Multiwfn 3.8,55 and their structures were displayed by applying VMD 1.9.3.56Table 1 demonstrates the outcome of all these parameters, where MPP provides an estimate of the general deviation of the whole structure from the plane.
The lowest overall planarity of M4 might be attributed to the most reduced distance between the bulky alkyl chains of the molecule due to its smallest central core, which might have caused steric hindrance between the core and peripheral donors of the molecule.
3, this deviation shown by M3 is due to the perpendicular fluoro-phenyl rings of its core, while the rest of the core is in plane with the CPDT donors.
The highest one observed by M5 might be attributed to the planar configuration of its donor cores with respect to the terminals of the molecule, which with the help of the greater planarity might have increased the overall conjugation in the molecule.
In OSCs, the aim of employing this approach is to explain the position of charge dispersion in the orbitals with major transitions, i.e., the FMOs, which is helpful to assess the probable charge transfer in a molecule.60 In accordance with energy band theory, electron transfer can be described by taking HOMO as the valence band for the donor of electrons and LUMO as the conduction band for the acceptance of those electrons.61 Thus for the superior transfer of charges, the HOMO shall be over the donor with LUMO over the acceptors.
Upon examining the HOMO densities, it's perceived that all the molecules have high charge density upon their donors (D) and cores, either the acceptor one (A') of reference or the donor (D') of M1–M4.
Here, the acceptor core (A') of the reference doesn't actually follow the afore-stated distribution strategy, while all the derived molecules do so in case of their HOMO densities.
Similarly, except for M4, all the derived molecules have a shift of charge density from their donor core (D') towards their terminal electron-accepting moieties (A), with the CPDT (D) donors working as bridges between them.
Here, it can be said that effective charge density dispersal is seen in all molecules, except M4, despite their relatively planar geometry, and the reason could be attributed to their prominent donor cores.
Thus according to 6-31G(d,p) basis set, the HOMO values of designed molecules vary with that of reference in the arrangement M5 > M4 > M2 > M2 > M1 > R and their LUMO values vary in the arrangement M1 > M4 > M2 > M3 > M5 > R. Here, the relatively upshifted LUMO value of the derived molecules might help achieve high open-circuit voltage value by them, if assumed to be acceptors in the photo-active interface.
It could be due to its most planar confirmation, increased conjugation, as well as the high electron donating ability of the nitrogen atoms of its donor (D') core, which through collaboration with CPDT (D) donors might effectively transfer electrons towards the terminals.
The highest band gap of M1 could be due to the non-planar confirmation of its donor core (D'), which also decreased its absorption maxima and increased its excitation energy.
DOS helps in verifying the results of FMOs and demonstrating the involvement of the core, donor, and acceptor in the formation of different energy levels (especially HOMO and LUMO), and helps in the evaluation of possible intramolecular charge transfer.
For the sake of convenience, molecules were fragmented as acceptors, donors, and cores.
These fragments, representing the partial DOS of donor (green), core (black), and acceptor (red) can be seen in Fig.
Likewise, the black peaks of the core in all the proposed molecules are more prominent than in R. Though the red ones of the acceptors are all significantly similar, due to the identical acceptor group in all the studied molecules, which is also the case with the green peaks of donors.
Moving on towards the contribution of terminal acceptors in HOMO formation, it is seen that all the proposed molecules have lower contributions in this respect, which illustrates the effective HOMO generation in them as opposed to R. On the other hand, with the assumption that the core of the reference molecule is an accepting one, it should have had a strong contribution to the LUMO generation, but that is not the case.
Percentage involvement of core, donor, and acceptor in elevation of HOMO and LUMO
It aids in determining the degree to which charge transports occur from donor to acceptor.
Here, it should be noted that generally, the donor regions garner a blue hue, with the accepting ones having a red one, and M1–M4, all follow this trend.
On the other hand, despite the red hues in the core of M5, its deep blue zone around the saturated electron-donating nitrogen atoms makes it a prominent donor core.
On a side note, the presence of greenish hues around the CPDT donors of the molecules hints towards their charge transferring attributes.
Powerful electron acceptors at the terminals lessen the coulombic forces of attraction in excitons, resulting in easy separation and lowering of the binding energy values, and this effect is enhanced ten folds by the presence of strong donors in the center for an effective push–pull effect.70 Lower binding energy leads to quicker dissociation, which is the ground for a higher current generation.
Upon comparison between the values of both these energies, the lower λelectron of all the molecules than their λhole, leads to the conclusion that these molecules might act as better electron transporters than hole, and thus are assumed to be acceptors in the interface of active layers.
It is a convenient parameter for interpreting and assessing the electronic excitations within molecular systems and also the electron–hole coherence.78–80 Besides this, calculations of TDM divulge the participation of different moieties of molecules in charge movement, which provide us with information about the acceptor–donor interactions in the first excited state.81 The hydrogen is ignored in the transition density matrix calculations because of its negligible contribution to transition.82 Here, Multiwfn software was used to plot the graphs of R and M1–M5.
All molecules are classified into three sections; acceptor, core, and donor (A, C, and D, respectively).
The TDM map of R clearly shows that charge distribution is present in the core of the molecule, however, the acceptors and CPDT donors have comparatively lower charge density spaces.
This could be due to the electron-accepting nature of the core of the reference, which shifted the charge density significantly towards itself and reduced its flow toward the terminal acceptors.
Additionally, the off-diagonal coherences in the opposite direction is quite low in case of R, while its diagonal bands seems to somewhat present in the acceptor region.
Conversely, the cores of the derived molecules being densely electron rich have brightly colored diagonal and off-diagonal charge transfer as well as electronic coherences towards the acceptors at the peripheries while traveling from the CPDT donors.
Here, the relatively low charge off diagonal charge density in the donors (D) of the molecules justifies their rule as bridges in the derived molecule.83 The dim regions of charge density in all CPDT donors of the molecules exhibit the peripheral alkyl chains, showing their inferior contribution to charge transfer.
Actually, when molecules get close to each other, they organize themselves so that their opposite poles attract each other via intermolecular forces of attraction.85 The dipole moment also elucidates the adept movement of holes and electrons among acceptor and donor portions.
By increasing the HOMO of the donor moiety and decreasing the LUMO of the acceptor moiety, maximum Voc can be achieved.86 For efficient charge movement, the designed acceptors are blended with relevant polymer donor material; PTB7-Th, which has a HUMO and LUMO of 5.20 eV and 3.59 eV.71 This donor is excessively used in theoretical research to evaluate the computational Vocs.
In this research, the values of Voc are examined by utilizing the LUMO level of designed molecules (assumed to be acceptors) and HOMO of donor material PTB7-Th, by utilizing the following equation:874where e is the charge on molecules, 0.3 is an empirical factor, and E defines energy levels of respective molecules' energy levels.
The reason is its lower LUMO level in comparison to that of R and other designed structures when blended with polymer fullerene donor material (PTB7-Th).
On the other hand, although the Voc of M5 is lowest when compared to other derived acceptors, but is still higher than reference and thus it could not be wrong to say that this molecule is better than reference in terms of almost all the afore-studied parameters.
Moreover, it is seen that for effective transfer of charge between the donor and acceptor chromophores at the interface their LUMO values must be relatively close for feasible jumping of electron between their excited states (i.e., LUMO).
Computed Vocs for reference R and designed M1–M5 acceptors with donor; PTB7-Th.
Moreover, M5 is denoted for improved charge transfer from HOMO towards LUMO due to the planar configuration of its donor core with the rest of the molecule.
Nonetheless, reasonable Voc values with respect to HOMOPTB7-Th − LUMOacceptor showed that all our modified molecules are best-suited non-fullerene acceptors for future utilization in OSCs.
Thus, the modeled molecules should be employed as non-fullerene acceptor molecules in active layer of organic solar cells after careful analysis of photovoltaic parameters.
AbstractPorphyrin‐based non‐fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have shown pronounced potential for assembling low‐bandgap materials with near‐infrared (NIR) characteristics.
Herein, panchromatic‐type porphyrin‐based molecules (POR1–POR5) are proposed by modulating end‐capped acceptors of a highly efficient porphyrin‐based NFA PORTFIC(POR) for organic solar cells (OSCs).
Panchromatic‐type porphyrin‐based novel molecules are proposed by modulating end‐capped acceptor groups of a recently reported highly efficient porphyrin‐based non‐fullerene acceptor (NFA) with the motive of suggesting new near‐infrared (NIR) sensitive, low‐bandgap materials for organic solar cell (OSC) applications.
These ranges can be simply extended to near‐infrared (NIR) region via use of acceptor‐donor‐acceptor (A‐D‐A) configuration that contains porphyrin as a donor core in the center.
Moreover, Peng group synthesized A‐D‐A configured a set of porphyrin core donor compounds in which rhodamine and diketopyrrolopyrrole electron withdrawing units were attached to both sides of the central core.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) based on the fabrication of these porphyrin derivatives with PC61BM or PC71BM acceptor provided over 8 % PCE.
[10]  The development of porphyrin‐based acceptors have gained increasing consideration over the years, [11]  where several efforts have been made on re‐designing dyes with better electron withdrawing units which resulted better harvesting of light.
A noticeable PCE of 7.4 % was achieved by blended PBI‐Por with PBDB‐T donor but it still suffered from insufficient light harvesting beyond 700 nm.
[14]  Lately, various acceptors containing ladder like backbone with IC and FIC end‐caped moieties have been investigated and their results indicate that such acceptor molecules can stack to one another through FIC and IC unit.
designed three porphyrin cored acceptors by linking thiophene‐FIC group at meso position through a single bond in 2019.
[16]  But these non‐fullerene acceptors (NFAs) lack absorption above 600 nm due to free rotation of the single bonds that decreases the transfer of energy across the FIC and the porphyrin group.
Therefore, two panchromatic porphyrin derivatives PORTIC and fluorinated PORTFIC were synthesized, [17]  with porphyrin as a central core, thiophene and ethynyl linkage as a bridge and IC, FIC end‐capped acceptor units respectively.
Therefore, taking clue from this substitution, we planned to further substitute the end‐capped acceptor of PORTFIC with various reported electron‐pulling end‐capped groups and develop new porphyrin‐based near‐infrared (IR) sensitive NFAs with better photovoltaic efficiency.
This study aims to expand the photovoltaic and optoelectronic properties of porphyrin‐based NIR sensitive NFAs via modification of end‐capped acceptor units.
In all developed NFAs, central core porphyrin along with above and below mentioned units act as a donor unit.
The difference between end‐capped acceptors P1 and P2 is the presence of two SO3H in P1 and two NO2 groups in P2.
The P3 end‐capped acceptor contains two Cl and two CN groups.
The end‐capped acceptor P4 and P5 is having a difference of CN and COOCH3 groups respectively.
However, to limit the potential energy surface, OCH3 substituted benzyl group on Zn‐porphyrin and few parts of end‐capped acceptor arrayed themselves out of the plane.
The bond lengths d1 and d2 connect the thiophene bridge with end‐capped acceptor units P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 along left and right sides of central core porphyrin respectively.
Similarly, θ1 and θ2 is the dihedral angle present between bridge and end‐capped acceptor motifs of studied molecules.
The ICT that reached to the end‐capped acceptors from donor core determines the extent of voltage, current and cell effectiveness.
The lowering in Eg value is due to P1 acceptor unit.
This indicate the better efficiency of P2 acceptor than the end‐capped acceptor unit of POR.
0.17 eV reduction in Eg value is marked in the developed compound POR3 as compared to POR molecule due to incorporation of P3 end‐capped acceptor unit.
While, LUMO part is partially available on bridge 2‐ethynyl‐5‐methylthiophene section and mainly on end‐capped acceptors P1–P5 present in POR1–POR5 respectively.
The DOS and OPDOS graphs portrayed in Figure 6 indicate that modified end‐capped acceptor units had a significant impact on the distribution pattern around the HOMO and LUMO.
To gain better understanding of the push‐pull mechanisms of the ICT, investigated molecules POR and POR1–POR5 were separated into acceptor (A), bridge (B) and donor (D) fragments.
For HOMO of POR, donor, bridge and acceptor units contribute 60 %, 29 % and 11 % respectively.
Similarly, 8 %, 17 % and 75 % is the contribution of donor, bridge and acceptor units towards LUMO of POR.
In POR1, donor contributes 78 % to HOMO and 4 % LUMO, bridge contributes 12 % to HOMO and 14 % LUMO, whereas acceptor gives 10 % to HOMO and 82 % to LUMO.
The donor moiety in POR2–POR5 contributes 62 %, 74 %, 61 %, 84 %, to HOMO and 7 %, 14 %, 5 %, 6 % to LUMO respectively.
Similarly, acceptor segment contributes 17 %, 11 %, 14 %, 6 % to HOMO, whereas 77 %, 65 %, 87 %, 85 % to LUMO for POR2–POR5 respectively.
All findings indicate that HOMO density in POR1–POR5 is concentrated on the central core donor, whereas, LUMO is populated on terminal acceptor portion and slight on bridge unit.
The charge density transfers from donor to bridge and then to the end‐capped acceptors represent the successful intramolecular charge transfer.
Structural tailoring of reference POR molecule with P1 end‐capped acceptor unit significantly altered the optical properties and gave the value of 906 nm λmax  value for POR1, which is 66 nm red‐shifted from POR (Table 2 and Figure 7).
The efficiency of P3 end‐capped acceptor was found to be marginally better in red shifting the λmax  value of POR3 to 907.45 nm than reference molecule.
Scharber's equation [41]  utilization of the HOMO of donor and LUMO of acceptor for the measurement of Voc  is determined as follows: (3) Voc=(EHOMOD-ELUMOA)-0.3
Since the investigated molecules POR and POR1–POR5 are the acceptors, therefore, established PTB7‐Th polymer is used as donor to make blend with the developed acceptor molecules.
 Voc  of studied acceptor molecules with respect to PTB7‐Th donor polymer.
End‐capped acceptor P1 in POR1 lowers the λe  and λh  values to 0.007702 and 0.006412 Eh  respectively.
Similarly, P2 end‐capped acceptor successfully lowers the λ e  and λ h  values in POR2 as compared to reference POR but these values are slightly greater in contrast to POR1 indicating the better hole and electron mobilities than the reference but less than POR1.
Further reduction in λe  and λh  values of compounds POR3, POR4 and POR5 are noted as compared to the reference POR, exhibiting the effectiveness of P3, P4 and P5 end‐capped acceptors.
The POR and developed POR1–POR4 molecules are very similar in terms of charge distribution with strong charge density on central donor unit porphyrin ring.
Following on the atom numbers >51are the acceptor unit attracting the charge density creating an intramolecular charge separation state.
The behavior of POR5 molecule is different as compared to other designed molecules, where a diagonal charge transfer is observed and significant charge destiny is found on the end‐capped acceptor.
This indicates the effectiveness of end‐capped acceptor P5 used in POR5 in withdrawing the charge density from the central core to itself.
It can be seen in all the molecules that when central core porphyrin unit is augmented with the end‐capped acceptors P1–P5, charge density flow lingers successfully inside the entire molecule.
These TDM studies show that developed molecules especially POR5 could be a superior contender as an acceptor material for OSCs applications.
The order of Eb  is reported as POR5<POR4<POR3<POR2<POR<POR1 which shows the effectiveness of the proposed end‐capped acceptor units.
Charge transfer analysis of acceptor POR5 and polymer PTB7‐Th as the donor
Charge transfer analysis is used to confirm the applicability of the designed molecules in bulk heterojunction materials, they are modelled into a layer with a known and well characterized donor.
The parallel orientation of central parts of POR5 and PTB7‐Th promotes the transfer of charge among donor and acceptor moieties.
The FMO analysis of PTB7‐Th : POR5 complex indicated that HOMO charge density in PTB7‐Th : POR5 blend is present on donor PTB7‐Th polymer (Figure 11).
While, LUMO portion in PTB7‐Th : POR5 complex is found on acceptor POR5 molecule.
The transmission of charge density from donor to acceptor layer in PTB7‐Th : POR5 blend is a strong indication for utility of designed molecules in practical solar cell applications.
This is due to the extended conjugation and better electron withdrawing capability of end‐capped acceptors P1‐P5 used in the proposed POR1–POR5 molecule.
DOS analysis confirms that donor moiety in POR1–POR5 contributes 78 %, 62 %, 74 %, 61 %, 84 %, to HOMO and 4 %, 7 %, 14 %, 5 %, 6 % to LUMO respectively.
While acceptor segment contributes 10 %, 17 %, 11 %, 14 %, 6 % to HOMO, whereas 82 %, 77 %, 65 %, 87 %, 85 % to LUMO for POR1–POR5 respectively.
Structural tailoring of reference POR with P1‐P5 end‐capped acceptor units significantly tune the λmax  values which are found red‐shifted and in near infrared region 898.82–1116.27 nm in POR1–POR5 as compared to reference POR 840.05 nm.
TDM analysis confirm that coherence of charge density in reference POR and developed POR1–POR4 molecules is almost similar with strong charge density on central donor unit porphyrin ring.
In this work, the effects of varying the device size and transport parameters on the performance parameters of a PHJ OPV structure comprised of Indium Tin Oxide as the anode (ITO), semiconducting single-wall carbon nanotube (s-SWCNT) as the donor, fullerene C70 as the acceptor, and Aluminium (Al) as the cathode have been analyzed.
The conclusion suggests that a highly effective ITO/s-SWCNT/C70/Al PHJ solar cell may be fabricated if the suggested device is appropriately built with a thin layer and a high exciton diffusion length, bi-molecular recombination coefficient, and improved mobility charge carriers, in particular hole mobility in the cell’s donor layer.
[12] used a computer model to examine the impact of the energy barrier between the cathode and the LOMO of the acceptor layer on the carrier density, electric fields, and electric potentials of organic PHJ photovoltaics.
Donor–acceptor separation suppresses electron–hole recombination relative to Langevin recombination.
According to the simulation results, PPV/PCBM solar cell efficiency may be increased to 5.5% by increasing hole mobility and decreasing acceptor strength by 0.5 eV.
The PTB7: PC70BM donor polymer was used to build the device.
They have evaluated the donor blends temperature- and thickness-dependent PCE.
[19] later studied the PHJ solar cells with fullerene C70 as the electron donor and 1,4,5,8,9,11-Hexa Azatri Phenylene Hexa Carbo Nitrile (HAT-CN) as the electron acceptor in a PHJ structure.
Most research has been performed on systems that use P3HT as the donor and PCBM as the acceptor.
The PCEs for these systems range from 3 to 6% in BHJ and from 0.1 to 3.1% in PHJ, mostly because the contact area between the donor and acceptor is lost [20,21,22].
The development of plastic PHJ devices for practical use is hindered by the problems of donor–acceptor interface loss and employment of plastic substrate; both have been the topic of extensive research.
[33] demonstrated high Voc OPV cells that incorporated two, three, or five stacked, thin heterojunctions consisting of Cu-phthalocyanine as a donor, and 3,4,9,10 perylenetetracarboxylic bis-benzimidazole as an acceptor using SYNOPSYS solar simulation software.
Models using acceptor states at the absorber–buffer interface produce the best agreement with data on ZnO and Zn0.83Mg0.17O cells.
When the exciton is divided down into its constituent parts, the holes pass through the donor, and the electrons pass through the acceptor.
Boundary conditions:(5)n(d)=nCathode=Ncexp(−Φc−xacceptorKT) (6)p(0)=pAnode=Nvexp(−ΦA−xdonorKT) where ΦC and ΦA are the cathode and anode work function, respectively, xacceptor and xdonor are the LUMO level of acceptor and donor, respectively, and Nc and Nv are the effective density of states.
The recombination is effective at the interface region between donor and acceptor.
In this work, the cathode is made of aluminum metal, the electron donor is a semiconducting single-wall carbon nanotube (s-SWCNT), the electron acceptor is C70 fullerene, and the anode is made of ITO.
The presence of hydrogen bonding moieties on the electron acceptor fullerene derivatives may provide further insights into the effect of hydrogen bonding on BHJ solar cell devices.
As with the electron donor material, the acceptor should ideally phase separately on a suitable length scale to allow maximum ordering and thus, charge can be transported effectively in continuous pathways to the electrodes and the recombination of free charges can be minimized.
This has been performed for the effect of five different layers, (i) the cathode layer, (ii) acceptor layer, (iii) donor layer, (iv) donor–acceptor interface layer and (v) anode layer.
The active layer (donor–acceptor layer) of the s-SWCNT/C70 solar cell contains separate donor (s-SWCNT) layer and acceptor (C70) layer.
To conduct a comparative analysis and improve each PHJ structure’s performance, the authors initially studied the active layer performance by implementing three strategies: acceptor layer, donor layer, and equal proportion of donor–acceptor layer thickness variation.
Initially, the thickness of the acceptor layer varied between 10 nm and 200 nm, the remaining layers, such as donor 200 nm, anode 100 nm, and the cathode layer 100 nm, remained constant.
Likewise, in the following case, the thickness of the donor layer varies from 10 nm to 200 nm, the remaining layers, such as acceptor 200 nm, anode 100 nm, and the cathode layer 100 nm, remained constant.
Finally, the thickness of the donor and acceptor layers, which together make up the active layers, is evenly altered over the range of 10 nm to 200 nm, the remaining layers, such as the anode at 100 nm and the cathode layer at 100 nm, remained constant.
Figure 3a demonstrates a donor–acceptor active layer thickness over 40 nm is useless.
The Voc value is based only on the energy gap between the donor HOMO and the acceptor LUMO.
When the thickness of the donor and acceptor active layers is increased above 40 nm, the efficiency drops.
In comparison, the donor and acceptor layers remained at 40 nm, and the cathode layer was maintained at 100 nm, depending on the previous instance’s findings.
Based on the findings of the first two instances, this work further extended for the third scenario in which the thickness of the cathode layer varied from 10 nm to 200 nm, while the thicknesses of the donor and acceptor layers were held constant at 40 nm and 140 nm, respectively.
The donor–acceptor interface layer in PHJ device of OSC is vital, this layer contributes significantly to the device’s overall efficiency.
There is a strong correlation between the efficacy of a photovoltaic device and the optimization of donor–acceptor interface layers.
The donor–acceptor interface layer is critical, especially for PHJ devices as it affects the overall performance of the device.
Excitons are dissociated at the donor–acceptor interface.
The donor–acceptor interface is diffuse and has a finite thickness.
In this research work, the effects of the donor–acceptor interface on each photoelectric conversion process are analyzed by varying the donor–acceptor interface thickness in PHJ systems.
Initially, the donor–acceptor interface thickness layer is varied from 0.5 nm to 2 nm, the remaining layers’ such as acceptor 40 nm, donor 40 nm, anode 140 nm, and the cathode layer 100 nm kept constant for this analysis.
Figure 4 illustrates the comparison plot characteristics of PHJ device for various donor–acceptor interface layer thicknesses from the J-V curves.
As per the simulation findings, the best performance is obtained for the donor–acceptor interface layer thickness of 0.5 nm Jsc = 5.6 mA/cm2, Voc = 0.66 V, FF = 69%, and ɳ = 2.55%.
The PHJ OSC’s active layer is bi-layered, including donor and acceptor layers.
That is why it is simple and effective to manipulate the mobility of charge carriers triggered at the heterojunction of the donor–acceptor interface layer.
The simulation results show that Jsc = 5.6255 mA/cm2, Voc = 0.66 V, FF = 82%, and ɳ = 3.045%, the best performance is achieved for the variation in mobility charge carriers in the active layer, with electron mobility in the acceptor and hole mobility in the donor both at 1e−1 (cm2/V.
Because crystallinity increases the exciton diffusion length in the organic semiconductor, it is useful to know whether an organic solar cell’s donor or acceptor layer is increasing the crystallinity.
Figure 6 shows the variation of exciton diffusion length of both donor and acceptor material, ranging from 5 to 20 nm.
For this research work analysis, the donor material is kept constant as 20 nm and the acceptor material are varied from 5 to 20 nm.
Then, the acceptor material is kept constant as 20 nm and donor material are varied from 5 to 20 nm.
The simulation results show that Jsc = 6.5295 mA/cm2, Voc = 0.66 V, FF = 70%, and ɳ = 3.032%, the best performance is achieved for the variation in exciton diffusion length, with exciton diffusion length in the acceptor and exciton diffusion length in the donor both at 20 nm.
Only at the donor–acceptor interface does recombination of charged carriers take place.
The findings show that if the device is fabricated with an optimized structure, high exciton diffusion length, and increased carrier mobility, especially hole mobility at the donor layer of the cell, a highly efficient ITO/s-SWCNT/C70/Al PHJ solar cell may be generated.
It was determined from the data that the electrical power output is increased because the thin donor and acceptor layers allow for more absorption of charge carriers at the active layer and suffer less from the recombination effect.
Therefore, a thin donor layer with enhanced exciton diffusion length should be produced in order to create a highly efficient ITO/s-SWCNT/C70/Al PHJ solar cell with a high output power density.
Results also imply that charge carrier mobility must be increased by modifying the doping concentration of the donor–acceptor layer of the cell to achieve high rates of charge carrier diffusion in the active layer.
For exciton diffusion lengths of 20 nm for donor and 5 nm for acceptor, donor thicknesses of 40 nm, acceptor thicknesses of 40 nm, anode thicknesses of 140 nm, cathode thicknesses of 100 nm, interface layer thickness of 0.5 nm, the electron mobility in the acceptor and hole mobility in the donor both at 1e−1 (cm2/V.
In recent years, the focus has been on developing innovative donor and acceptor molecules that will provide low energy loss in the active layer to achieve high efficiency.
In particular, 19% power conversion efficiency (PCE) has been achieved using non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) with easily adapted chemical structures and finely tuned band gaps, energy levels and crystallization1.
The structural arrangement of NFA is critical for the light absorption, phase separation and charge transport properties of photovoltaic organic mixtures with electron donors, which determines the OSC’s PCE.
Gao et al., on the other hand, increased the efficiency above 19% in planar mixed heterojunction (PMHJ) OSC by making asymmetric selenium substitution in the construction of BS3TSe-4F, which is a pseudosymmetric electron acceptor1.
For this purpose, new donor and acceptor molecules with narrow band gaps have been developed to enhance the absorption of near-infrared (NIR) regions and ST-OSCs have been optimized by designing new transparent conductive films or optical coupling layers to modulate light transmission5–7,10,11.
The ST-OSC designed with donor PTB7 and acceptor PC71BM polymers with an asymmetric MAW transparent contact system is understood to offer outstanding optical properties.
Recently, nearly isostructural non-fullerene electron acceptors have been designed by Lee et al., apart from using solubilizer units with absorbance between 600 and 1100 nm30.
obtained EQE up to 1100 nm in a wide spectral range in the OSCs they developed using NFA COTIC-4F and PTB7-based donors32.
Poly ({4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b: 4,5-b0]dithiophene-2,6-diyl}{3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl}) (PTB7) was used as the donor polymer and (6,6)-phenyl C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), a fullerene derivative with high electronegativity and superior charge transport properties, was used as the acceptor polymer43.
The twofold negative charge of the nickel vacancy is compensated for by the stabilisation of the Ni3+ oxidation state , which acts as an acceptor shallow level.
The negative charge of  is compensated for by the Ni3+ acceptor level.
The combined effects of increasing the number of nickel vacancies from Cu2+ along with lithium-type doping from Cu+ might explain the effectiveness of Cu doped NiO, also exploited in copper doped NiO nanoparticles in planar106 and mesoscopic configurations.43 When doped into NiO, cobalt exhibits a mixture of Co2+ and Co3+.93 Natu et al.,107 following the work of Radwanski et al.,108 proposed that Co2+ enhances the acceptor state density in NiO being able to accept an extra electron in its t2g levels.
The polymer used was poly[N−9′‐heptadecanyl‐2,7‐carbazole‐alt‐5,5‐(4′,7′‐di‐2‐thienyl‐2′,1′,3′‐benzothiadiazole)], known as PCDTBT, synthesized by Yi as reported previously.23 The electron acceptor used was [6,6]‐phenyl‐C71 butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM), provided by Ossila Ltd.
Panchromatic absorption was extended to the NIR area with a significantly low energy loss of 0.54 eV which led to promising photovoltaic performance.A near-infrared-harvesting n-type porphyrin-based acceptor for organic photovoltaics (OPVs) was developed.
The n-type acceptor, PDI–PZn–PDI, was designed by connecting a zinc porphyrin (PZn) core to two perylenediimide (PDI) wings through ethyne bridges.
A record-high power conversion efficiency (PCE) for DSSCs (13%) was achieved using porphyrin-based dyes.8–10 Recently, porphyrin derivatives have also achieved significant performances as the photoactive materials in OPVs.11–14 However, successful reports of using porphyrin derivatives in solar cells have mainly focused on the design of p-type donor materials.8–13 Although Li et al.
recently reported a highly promising n-type porphyrin acceptor,14 the relatively few reports on the applications of n-type porphyrin-based acceptors for solar cells have not demonstrated meaningful solar cell performances (PCE <1% in DSSCs and OPVs).15,16 Therefore, the development of high-performance n-type porphyrin-based photoactive materials is a challenging and unexplored area in artificial light-harvesting system research.
Considering the adequate electron-transport properties of porphyrins in natural systems, the performance of porphyrin-based acceptors can be improved by judicious molecular design.
Using PDI–PZn–PDI as an acceptor, panchromatic OPV devices with a remarkably low energy loss (E loss) of 0.54 eV were achieved.
The PDI–PZn–PDI acceptor was unambiguously characterized by 1H and 13C NMR and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) (Fig.
Although PDI is a popular moiety for designing n-type acceptors, its suboptimal π-electron delocalization due to its high resonance energy and twisted dihedral angle with adjacent molecules limits its potential as a narrow bandgap acceptor for OPVs.21–23 Unlike other PDI-containing acceptors, our PDI–PZn–PDI effectively overcomes those limitations through extended π-conjugation due to its planar molecular geometry.
This is a substantially more suppressed dihedral angle than those of other reported small molecule acceptors containing PDI units (40–60°).21–23
To evaluate the capability of PDI–PZn–PDI as a photoactive acceptor for OPV devices, we fabricated bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structured devices using poly([2,6′-4,8-di(5-ethylhexylthienyl)benzo[1,2-b;3,3-b]dithiophene]{3-fluoro-2[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl}) (PTB7-Th)26 as a donor counterpart because PTB7-Th shows high hole mobility and complementary absorption to PDI–PZn–PDI.
The effects of the donor/acceptor ratio were investigated, and a PTB7-Th : PDI–PZn–PDI ratio of 1 : 1.4 showed optimum performance due to balanced optical absorption and charge collection (Fig.
DIO is known as the best-selling additive for BHJ layers32–34 and presumably improves miscibility between donors and acceptors.
We developed a novel NIR-harvesting narrow-bandgap n-type porphyrin derivative, PDI–PZn–PDI, and applied it as an acceptor for OPV devices.
This result is unprecedentedly high among OPV devices using porphyrin-based acceptors.
This new type of NIR absorbing acceptor without a severe loss of V OC promises further performance improvements in panchromatic OPV devices by the selection of other visible absorbing donors.
Diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) is a representative electron acceptor incorporated into narrow-bandgap polymers for organic photovoltaic cells (OPV).
Diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)15–23 and isoindigo (IDG)24–34 are relatively strong electron acceptors and have been polymerized into narrow-bandgap polymers for OPV.
DPP units were synthesized according to previously described procedures (see Experimental) and polymerized with an electron-donor unit of 2-dimensional benzobisthiophene-appending alkylthiophene side units (BDT-Th) via Stille coupling reaction.
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations of donor–acceptor–donor units shown in Fig.
3c revealed a contrasting change in the dihedral angle between the BDT-Th donor unit and DPP, where Ph-side angles were almost double (20–25°) those of the Th (or TT)-side angles (11°).
The donor–acceptor–donor compounds were geometry-optimized using DFT with B3LYP/6-31G*.
Over the past few decades, remarkable advances have been made in non-fullerene acceptor (NFA)-based OPVs, with their power conversion efficiency exceeding 18%, which is close to the requirements for commercial realization.
While early-stage OPV devices adopted a single-component material for the photoactive layer and the PCE was only ∼1%, the advent of the bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) system18–20 blended with an electron donor (D) and an acceptor (A) has allowed for improving the PCE by more than 10%, the first significant breakthrough in the OPV field.21,22 The BHJ system has demonstrated efficient photocurrent generation via increasing the D/A interfacial area and is widely adopted in most OPV devices.18–20 Specifically, the BHJ blend OPVs consisting of a polymer donor and a fullerene acceptor (FA) (e.g., PC61BM and PC71BM) have received a great deal of attention, providing a comprehensive understanding of the photo-conversion process in the BHJ blend system as well as valuable insights into the design of high-performance OPVs.
23) through the development of numerous polymer donors (e.g., 11.7% for PffBT4T-C9C13:PC71BM); however, further improvements have been hindered by various critical drawbacks, including narrow and weak light absorption, large voltage loss, and thermal and/or photo-chemical instability.24–26 Meanwhile, chemically modifiable non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have emerged as an alternative to FAs for overcoming the aforementioned optical and photophysical issues.8,27–35 In practice, employing an NFA as a host acceptor in binary blends17,24,31,36 or as a secondary acceptor in ternary blends37–41 has proven to exceed the theoretical efficiency (∼15%) of FA-based OPVs,42 which presents the second major breakthrough in OPV technology.
One significant feature of NFA-based OPVs is the high short-circuit current density (JSC) with a small optical bandgap (Eg), i.e., the smaller optical bandgap of the donor or acceptor (Fig.
The each color means data of polymer donor:FA (grey dots), polymer donor:PDI-based NFA (orange dots), polymer donor:IDT-based NFA (navy dots), polymer donor:Y6-based NFA (pink dots) and polymer donor:others (NFAs which are not included in PDI, IDT, and Y6 categories) (green dots).
1).32,36,53 In this section, we describe the molecular design for these three types of NFA in terms of the optoelectronic and structural properties required for high-performance OPVs, while the device characteristics observed in various blend systems are also discussed (the chemical structures of polymer donors, FAs, PDI-based NFAs, IDT-based NFAs, and Y6-based NFAs are shown in Fig.
Chemical structures of polymer donors, FAs, and NFAs (PDI-based NFA, IDT-based NFA, and Y6-based NFA) discussed in this review.
OPV performance of representative polymer donor:FA and polymer donor:NFA blend photoactive layers
The high-performance blend system of PDI-based NFAs and polymer donors (Eg ≈ 1.6 eV) exhibits a light absorption in the 300–800 nm range and a JSC of 15–20 mA cm−2, which is similar to FA-based OPVs (Fig.
In addition, IDT-based NFAs have low crystallinity, exhibiting a well-mixed blend morphology with polymer donors.86–88
Hence, for the most part, IDT-based NFAs have a linear stacked packing structure formed through end-group π–π stacking,36,93 and the modification of the alkyl side chains (e.g., shape, length, and branch position) has been exploited to modulate the intermolecular interactions and the blend miscibility with the polymer donors.94,95 Chemically substituting hydrogen (H) atoms of the end-group with strong electronegative atoms (e.g., fluorine [F] and chlorine [Cl]) has also proven to be an effective molecular design strategy for improving the μe (≈10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1) of IDT-based NFAs through enhancing the intermolecular interactions.77,96–98
The blend system of IDT-based NFAs and polymer donors (e.g., PBDB-T analogs, PTB7-Th) covers the light absorption in the range of 400–1000 nm, and IDT-based devices with an Eg of <1.5 eV tend to exhibit a high JSC of >20 mA cm−2 (Fig.
The Y6-based blend system exhibits a complementary light absorption of 400–1100 nm with polymer donors (e.g., PBDB-T analogs or PTB7-Th).
Conventional FAs (e.g., PC61BM or PC71BM) exhibit a relatively short absorption range of 300–500 nm with weak α values;114 hence, the light harvesting of FA-based OPVs is largely determined by the absorption of polymer donors.
For example, the PffBT4T-C9C13:PC71BM blend OPV absorbs up to 750 nm of light and exhibits a JSC of 19.8 mA cm−2.23 Meanwhile, the complementary absorption of medium-Eg polymer donors and narrow-Eg NFAs covers a wide range of light absorption, enabling a high JSC of >20 mA cm−2.
The photoactive layer thickness is another important factor in efficient light harvesting.120,121 The photogenerated excitons diffuse to the D/A interface before decaying to a ground state; however, polymer donors and FAs typically have a short exciton diffusion length (LD) of 5–20 nm,122,123 which limits the thick-film fabrication of >100 nm with a high JSC.
Here, NFA-based OPVs exploit two photocurrent generation channels, exciton generation from the donor (channel-I) and the acceptor (channel-II), while FA-based OPVs operate predominantly on channel-I.20 Therefore, NFAs with a long LDs can greatly improve the photocurrent generation through channel-II.124,125 Firdaus et al.
performed EQE measurement of CuSCN/NFA (60–100 nm) bilayer devices and found that representative NFAs (i.e., SF-PDI2, EH-IDTBR, IDIC, ITIC, IT-M, IT-2Cl, IT-4F, and Y6) have a longer LDs (20–47 nm) than typical polymer donors and FAs.116 Subsequently, the exciton annihilation analysis using ultrafast transient spectroscopy revealed that NFAs have higher diffusion coefficients (D) than PC71BM (e.g., D = 0.064 cm2 s−1 for IT-4F and D = 0.00016 cm2 s−1 for PC71BM).
The ECT is given by the following:1297ECT = |HOMOD − LUMOA| − Ebwhere HOMOD is the HOMO of the donor and LUMOA is the LUMO of the acceptor.
While the ΔECT is the driving force for charge-separation, it presents an inevitable Vloss because the ECT lies below the lowest excited state (S1) of the donor or acceptor.
investigated the kCT and ΔECT for polymer donor:FA blends and found that the maximum kCT was yielded at an ΔECT of 0.4–0.8 eV.133 Elsewhere, Liu et al.
reported that polymer donor:NFA blends exhibited the maximum kCT even at a low ΔECT (≈0.2 eV).134 Meanwhile, various theoretical studies based on the Marcus–Jortner electron transfer theory have described how a low intramolecular (λI) and intermolecular reorganization energy (λO) can yield a maximum kCT even with a small ΔECT (Fig.
Most NFAs have a lower λI (e.g., λI = 0.179, 0.101, and 0.157 for IDT-IC, IDTIDT-IC, and BT-CIC, respectively) than FAs (e.g., λI = 0.180 for PC71BM).134 The molecular reorientation (i.e., intermolecular reorganization) occurs at the D/A interface during the CT process, changing the charge distribution of the donor and the acceptor.
In this regard, the electronic polarization, or the dielectric response, influences the λO in CT exciton splitting, which can be simplified in terms of the spherical cavity model established by Marcus:134–13610where e, ε0, εopt, εr, rD(A), and RDA are the elementary charge, the vacuum permittivity, the optical and relative dielectric constants, the donor (or acceptor) radius, and the distance between the center to center of the donor and the acceptor, respectively.
The difference in the n of acceptor materials was reported by Kerremans et al., with the ellipsometry measurement revealing higher n values (i.e., εopt) in NFAs than in conventional FAs (e.g., n = 2.7 for IT-4F and n = 2.2 for PC71BM).115 Meanwhile, in terms of the εr of acceptors, Zhu et al.
performed a computational study using density functional theory (DFT) and found that planar and rigid A–D–A structures have a higher α (e.g., α = 247.5 Å3, εr = 5.11 for IT-4F, and α = 114.5 Å3 and εr = 3.83 for PC71BM) and a smaller Eb (e.g., Eb = 0.35 and 0.90, 0.63 for IT-4F, PC71BM, SF-PDI2, respectively) than bulky or spherical structures.138 In addition, grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering measurement has been used to reveal that the RDA between the polymer donor and the NFA is close enough for effective intermolecular reorganization (e.g., RDA = 3.61 Å for PM6:Y6).101
examined the lifetime and efficiency of exciton splitting using polymer donor:NFA blends with a ΔEHOMO of 0–0.3 eV, with the NFA-based OPVs exhibiting slow exciton-splitting lifetimes (τsplitting > 20 ps) and high exciton-splitting efficiencies (ηsplitting > 90%) owing to the long τ of NFAs (305.3, 561.5, 898.3, and 1016 ps for ITIC, o-IDTBR, EH-IDTBR, and Y6, respectively).139 This demonstrates that NFAs with a long τ allow for efficient exciton splitting even with a negligible driving force (i.e., ΔECT < 0.2 eV).
On the other hand, the structural features of NFAs enable efficient electron transport through an increased electron transfer integral (|Je|)98 or a reduced energetic disorder, and they showed well-balanced charge transport with polymer donor materials.110
A–D–A-type non-fullerene acceptors
A–D–A′–D–A-type non-fullerene acceptors
These features enable the ambipolar charge transport of Y6, which is beneficial for a balanced charge transport in polymer donor:NFA blends.
investigated the energetic disorder of representative polymer-based blends by measuring the Urbach energy (EU), which represents the trap distribution.110 Here, the polymer donor:FA blends exhibited a higher EU (e.g., EU = 36.0 meV for PffBT4T-2OD:PC71BM) than did the polymer donor:NFA blends (e.g., EU = 34.4 and 22.4 meV for PBDB-T:ITIC and PM6:Y18, respectively).
To exploit triplet excitons efficiently, the energy difference between the S1 and T1 (i.e., ΔEST = ES1 − ET1) and the ΔECT should be as small as possible to prevent an energetically favored back electron transfer (BET) from 3CT to T1 of the donor or acceptor (Fig.
To date, polymer donors containing Ir or Pt metals (e.g., poly-DPP-Ph-Pt and poly-DPP-Th-Pt) have been the focus of most reports but have exhibited low device performances because of the poor blend morphology with the acceptor materials (i.e., large-scale phase separation).155,163
reported a PDI-based triplet acceptor in which tellurophene was fused with two PDI units (BFPTP).164 The triplet excitons of the BFPTP were confirmed via the photoluminescence (PL) emission with a long lifetime of 24.41 ms at 77 K. The energy level of the T1 (ET1) of the BFPTP was 1.50 eV, which is higher than the ECT of PBDB-T:BFPTP (1.45 eV), indicating that triplet excitons can be converted into 3CT excitons.
Among the NFA molecules, Y6-derivatives have a slightly twisted structure owing to the sp2-hybridization of the N atoms in the main backbone and are good candidates for triplet acceptors.168 Qin et al.
reported two triplet acceptors, both analogs of Y6 (H1 and H2),168 and observed long PL decays on the μs scale in both acceptors (8.15 μs for H1 and 7.66 μs for H2 at 77 K).
The two NFAs exhibited a relatively small ΔEST (≈0.35 eV) and had an ET1 (≈1.07 eV) close to the ECT (≈1.37 eV) of blend films employing PBDB-T as a polymer donor.
developed a measurement technique to accurately determine the temperature dependence of the χ (i.e., χ[T]) for representative OPV blends and established a quantitative model of the relationship between the domain purity of the mixed phase and the device FF, which can be expressed by the following equation:17414where ISI is the integrated scattering intensity of the resonant soft X-ray scattering (R-SoXs), with the square root of the ISI representing the relative domain purity (σ).192 This model was experimentally verified using 15 types of blend system (e.g., polymer donor:PC71BM and NFA), which indicated a constant-kink-saturation relationship between the χ and the device FF, where the larger the χ, the higher the σ (i.e., stronger phase separation), and, thus, the higher the device FF.174 In addition, the majority of polymer donor:PC71BM blends exhibit a larger χ and a higher device FF (1.3 < χ < 1.7, 61% < FF < 74%) than do polymer donor:NFA blends (0.23 < χ < 1.01, 46% < FF < 65%) (Fig.
OPV performance with χ and ISI value for polymer donor:FA and polymer donor:NFA
investigated the de-mixing in polymer donor:PC71BM blends under aging conditions (5 days).196 Here, using grazing-incidence small-angle X-ray scattering, the PC71BM domain size was found to have increased from 43 nm (the initial blend film) to 78 nm (the aged blend film; 80% increase).
In other words, the growth of larger clusters and phase separation occurred in the polymer donor:PC71BM blend under the aging condition when the PC71BM molecules diffused out of the amorphous mixed phases.
Various molecular design strategies for controlling the molecular miscibility have been reported in relation to polymer–NFA domain size, purity, and device FF.173 In the molecular design of polymer donors, an approach involving an increase in the rigidity of the polymer donor has proven to be effective for the nanoscale-phase separation in blend films without excessive intermixing with NFAs (i.e., higher χ).
investigated the impact of molecular packing on the blend miscibility (polymer donor:IT-4F) by adjusting the alkyl chains of polymer donors (n-octyl for P1, n-decyl for P2, and 3,7-dimethyloctyl for P3).189 The P2 polymer with a long linear alkyl chain exhibited lower blend miscibility (χ = 0.25 K, measured in terms of surface energy) than did the other two blends (χ = 0.15 K for P1:IT-4F, χ = 0.19 K for P3:IT-4F) owing to the close intermolecular packing.
Meanwhile, NFA-based OPVs with an Eg of 1.2–1.6 eV achieve a high JSC of >20 mA cm−2 by covering a wide region (400–1100 nm) through complementary light absorption with the polymer donors.
(4) The NFAs with heavy atoms or a small ΔEST can become strong candidates for photocurrent generation by harvesting triplet excitons with a long LD; however, they can also present a loss source for photo-excited excitons when the T1 of the donor or acceptor is lower than the 3CT (i.e., the BET process).
(5) The majority of NFAs are more miscible with polymer donors than are FAs (i.e., lower χ), while blends tend to have low domain purity.
Molecular designs aimed at enhancing the intermolecular packing of the polymer donors or NFAs can increase the domain purity of the blend, thus improving the device FF.
Along with the design of NFAs, multi-faceted studies covering the development of other layer materials (e.g., donor materials, electron/hole transport materials) and device fabrication (e.g., optimization of device structure, film processing techniques) are still essential to maximize OPV performance.
Among them, OPV-based indoor PVs have emerged as promising candidates for efficient light-harvesting technologies when employing highly efficient fullerene and non-fullerene materials as acceptors [5,6,7,8].
OPV devices based on the conventional structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/active layer/PFN/Al (as shown in Figure 2a) were fabricated to investigate the effect of different cases of electron acceptors on the photovoltaic performance under both AM 1.5G and indoor lighting conditions.
In summary, we carried out the performance investigation of indoor OPV devices comprised of bis-PCBM and its counterpart PCBM as the acceptor, respectively.
Subtle changes in solvent polarity or of the donor units in the bridge increase delocalization and prevent iSEF.
In the photoactive layer, the HTh6BT and P3HT can both act as donors.
In such parallel-type bulk heterojunctions, each donor can form excitons and generate charges while being separated from the donor/acceptor interface.
Compared to tandem cells, ternary blend OPVs can be manufactured more easily by adding donor materials to the existing binary blend solution.
P3HT is a typical electron donor conjugated polymer used in bulk heterojunction OPVs; it yields a PCE of about 4%–5% when introduced to the binary blend system with PCBM [20,29,30].
In such methods where a sensitizer is added, the energy level of the donor and/or acceptor should be considered in order to avoid the occurrence of exciton and charge traps [15].
In contrast, ternary or multi-blend systems of parallel type can enhance the PCE by adding a donor material with different band gap energies without considering the energy level.
In such parallel-type bulk heterojunctions (PBHJs), each donor can form excitons and generate charges while being separated from each donor/acceptor interface [15,33].
In PBHJ OPVs, Voc is known to be determined by the mass fraction of the donor material [15].
Based on this information, a PBHJ OPV is considered to have been successfully manufactured, wherein P3HT and HTh6BT polymers each play donor polymer roles.
In recent years, donor-acceptor (D-A)-type conjugated polymers have been widely used in the field of organic solar cells (OSCs) and electrochromism (EC).
Herein, we designed and synthesized three novel D-A conjugated polymers, PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF, and PBDT3-DTBF, by introducing polar oligo (ethylene glycol) (OEG) side chains of different lengths in the donor unit benzodithiophene (BDT) as side chain modification.
However, since PBDT-DTBF-class polymers and acceptor IT-4F failed to form proper morphology under the low-boiling point solvent THF solvent processing, the photovoltaic performance of prepared devices is not ideal.
Most highly efficient OSC systems, due to their good solubility in halogenated solvents, choose halogenated solvents (i.e., chloroform or chlorobenzene) for solution treatment to adequately dissolve polymer donors (PDs) and small molecular acceptors (SMAs).
report isoindigo-based polymer electron donor units modified with branched OEG side chains (P-OEG).
introduced OEG side chains to the dicyanodistyrylbenzene-based non-fullerene acceptors (NIDCS) and enhanced dielectric constant ϵr to 5.4.
Notably, the NIDCS acceptor modified with two triethylene glycol chains (NIDCS-EO3) shows high Voc (1.12 V) in OSC device with PTB7 as the polymer donor.
designed and synthesized a series of small molecular acceptors, BT2O, BTO and BT4O, with different lengths of OEG side chains in order to induce the self-assembly of Y6 in non-halogenated paraxylene (PX) solution.
[32] synthesized a series of BDTTBO polymers with different conjugated side chains for ternary blend solar cells with another conjugated polymer donor PTB7-TH and fullerene acceptor PC71BM.
Different oligo-glycol (OEG) side chains were introduced in donor benzodithiophene (BDT) unit, and three new D-A conjugated polymers, PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF and PBDT3-DTBF, were synthesized.
The donor unit in PBDT1-DTBF was not modified by OEG side chains, with relatively poor solubility.
Because PBDT-DTBF-class polymers and acceptor IT-4F failed to form a good phase morphology under the low-boiling point solvent THF solvent processing, photovoltaic performance of the prepared devices was not ideal.
In the backbone, 5,6-difluorobenzo[c] [1,2,5] thiadiazole (BF) unit operated as acceptor, and the BDT unit operated as donor parts.
The PBDT polymers are classical and well-studied donor-acceptor (D-A) type polymers: BDT unit with different OEG side chains as donor and BF unit as acceptor.
According to previous reports [18], although the OEG side chain is supposed to have a higher electron donor capacity according to the above analysis, the OEG group did not affect the band gap as significantly as predicted, which was also demonstrated in this study.
Since OEG is a donor unit, the polymer presents a lower onset oxidation potential (Eonset) during forward scanning with the increase of OEG length.
In the active layer, PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF and PBDT3-DTBF were used as the donor material, while IT-4F was used as the acceptor material [52].
Moreover, the frontier molecular orbital (FMO) energy levels of PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF and PBDT3-DTBF closely match the acceptor IT-4F, indicating that there are sufficient Δ HOMO and Δ LUMO to achieve effective exciton dissociation in charging process of the interface transfer, and the level matching diagram is shown in Figure 4a [53].
Through testing, it was found that the device performance of PBDT-DTBF and IT-4F was not ideal, because the PBDT-DTBF conjugated polymer and acceptor IT-4F failed to form smooth and even morphology under the low boiling point THF solvent processing, so they failed to form the appropriate phase region size, which adversely affected the exciton dissociation, charge generation and transmission.
By comparing PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF and PBDT3-DTBF films cast from CB, it was noted that after the introduction of shorter OEG side chains (n = 2) onto BDT donor, the optical modulation and coloration efficiency (CE) of PBDT2-DTBF film expressed a large drop in contrast with PBDT1-DTBF, while the transmittance change and coloration efficiency were slightly improved when the length of OEG side chain was prolonged (n = 3).
At a donor concentration of 10 mg/mL and acceptor IT-4F, the PBDT-DTBF-containing polymer and IT-4F mixture (1:1, w/w) were spin-cast on the PEDOT: PSS layer.
In this study, a side chain engineering study of the oligo (ethylene glycol) (OEG) of the classical benzodithiophene-benzothiadiazole (BDT-BT)-based conjugated polymer is carried out, and three novel polymers, PBDT1-DTBF, PBDT2-DTBF and PBDT3-DTBF, are designed and prepared by introducing different lengths of OEG side chains into the donor BDT unit to study the effect on solubility, basic optical properties, photovoltaic properties and electrochemical properties of polymers.
On the other hand, hydrogen plasma treatment can result in increasing the carrier concentration and mobility of AZO films as a result of producing shallow hydrogen donors and removing the oxygen adsorbed on the surface of grains [17-19].
Hydrogen microwave plasma annealing can increase the carrier concentration and mobility of GAZO films resulting from producing the shallow hydrogen donors and removing the oxygen adsorbed on the surface of grains similar to reports on AZO films [17-19].
 A nonfullerene acceptor based on a 3D tetraperylene diimide is developed for bulk heterojunction organic photovoltaics.
Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) made from electron donor–acceptor (D–A) bulk heterojunction (BHJ) based devices have attracted extensive attention due to their merits of light‐weight, low‐cost, flexibility, and solution processability.
Fullerene derivatives with unique phase and multidimensional charge‐transporting capabilities have played a central role as electron acceptor in BHJ devices leading to ≈11% power conversion efficiency (PCE).1, 2 In spite of the widespread usage of fullerene acceptors, they do suffer from drawbacks including weak absorption of visible light, poor chemical and electronic tunability, and high production cost.
To expand the horizon of OPVs, it is highly desirable to develop nonfullerene acceptors that are able to retain the advantages of fullerenes but without the abovementioned deficiencies.
Inspired by the rapid development of electron‐transporting materials, some molecular nonfullerene acceptors3 such as perylene diimides (PDIs),4, 5, 6 naphthalene diimide,7 fluoranthene‐fused imide,8 decacyclene triimdes,9 tetraazabenzodifluoranthene diimides,10 benzothiadiazole imide,11 diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP),12 dicynodistyrylbenzene,13 and azadipyrromethene complexes14 have all been developed for OPVs.
Among these, PDI is the most commonly used basic unit for OPV nonfullerene acceptors.4, 5, 6 By using a bay‐linked nonplanar di‐PDI as electron acceptor, Jen and others have achieved PCE as high as ≈6%, which is among the highest values reported for small molecule nonfullerene OPVs.
[[qv: 5a–c]] Nonfullerene acceptors with nonplanar structures have in general shown superior performance than those of the planar analogs in solution‐processed OPVs.5, 6, 8,[[qv: 10a]],12, 13, 14 The molecular geometries of the PDI nonfullerene acceptors evolve from planar monomer,4 twisted dimer5 to quasi‐3D and 3D structures6 (Figure S1, Supporting Information), in order to suppress the self‐aggregation of planar molecules for facilitating nanoscale phase domain formation.
More importantly, it enhances multidimensional charge separation (with donor) and transport.
In this work, we report a synthetic strategy to effectively transform planar subunits into a 3D nonfullerene acceptor with a compact tetrahedron core, of which four subunits are interlocked to reinforce structural rigidity of the molecule.
By coupling tetraphenyl‐silane with four planar PDIs to build a 3D nonfullerene acceptor (denoted as tetra‐PDI, Figure  1 a), it disrupts the PDI planarity with an interlocked 3D geometry that can suppress the PDI aggregation and facilitate excitation energy transfer between PDI subunits.
To study the role of tetra‐PDI in BHJ OPVs, the commercially available poly({4,8‐bis[(2‐ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl}{3‐fluoro‐2‐[(2‐ethylhexyl)‐carbonyl]‐thieno[3,4‐b]thiophenediyl}) (PBDTT‐F‐TT, structure shown in Figure S6, Supporting Information) was chosen as the donor, which has complementary absorption spectrum and matched frontier energy levels (Figure S6, Supporting Information) with tetra‐PDI.
Although efficient PL quenching is also observed in donor and mono‐PDI BHJ (Figure S10, Supporting Information), the external quantum efficiency (EQE) of mono‐PDI BHJ is much lower than that of tetra‐PDI.
Ideally, one would anticipate that efficient BHJ enables photo‐generated charge transfer between donor and acceptor.
The tetra‐PDI is expected to interact less strongly with the donor polymer due to its nonplaner molecular geometry compared to the planer mono‐PDI.
In summary, we have developed a novel PDI‐based 3D nonfullerene electron acceptor with an interlocked architecture, which originates from the sp3 hybrid silane framework.
The active layers (≈85 nm) were obtained by spin‐coating the solution of PBDTT‐F‐TT:PDI acceptors (tetra‐PDI or mono‐PDI) that was filtered with a polytetrafluoroethylene filter (0.45 μm) atop the thin layer of ZnO.
Hybrid photovoltaic devices based on blends of a conjugated polymer poly[2-methoxy-5-(3",7"dimethyloctyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] (MDMO-PPV) as electron donor and crystalline SnS2 quantum dots as electron acceptor have been studied.
The best solar cell adopting inorganic nano-phase as the electron acceptor demonstrated a power conversion efficiency exceeding 3% using CdSe tetrapods [3].
In this study, the consideration of SnS2 as electron acceptor in BHJ solar cell is based on its several advantages.
Besides, it has an appropriate energy level distribution when forming hybrid with an electron donor such as MDMO-PPV; electrons transfer at the interface is convenient.
Our previous study has shown that SnS2 nano-particles with a crystalline/amorphous blended phase demonstrated obvious photovoltaic property as an electron acceptor when blending with an organic semiconductor poly[2-methoxy-5-(3",7"-dimethyloctyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] (MDMO-PPV) [14].
Solar cells using these quantum dots as electron acceptor generate an improved photovoltaic property after replacing the insulating surfactant on the particles surface.
On the other hand, high SnS2 concentrations may induce large-scale phase separation due to particles aggregation [26], so that the donor-acceptor contact is affected, which is deleterious to device photocurrent.
However, Jsc characteristic of solar cells with pyridine-SnS2 as acceptor is superior to that of solar cells with OLA-SnS2.
Noticed is that, the efficiency of our solar cell using SnS2 as the electron acceptor is relatively low comparing with other hybrid solar cells such as CdSe [3] and PbS [4].
Dispersive SnS2 colloidal quantum dots are synthesized and considered as electrons acceptor in hybrid hetero-junction solar cells containing a conjugated polymer (MDMO-PPV).
Among the blended components of a photoactive layer in organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells, the acceptor is of high importance.
In this research work, seven new non-fullerene acceptors were designed for their possible utilization in the OPVs.
These molecules were designed through side-chain engineering of the PTBTP-4F molecule, with its fused pyrrole ring-based donor core and different strongly electron-withdrawing acceptors.
Thus, all our suggested molecules could act as superior acceptors to TPR.
In this regard, bulk heterojunction has proved itself to be quite proficient due to some multifarious non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).4 Actually, in the BHJ formation of a photoactive layer, the donor and acceptor materials are intermixed in such a way that they reduce the chances of recombination between the generated excitons.
The excitons are those closely coupled electron–hole pairs that have to dissociate into separate charge-transfer states, and this separation of electron and hole pair occurs at the interface between the two distinct polymer donor and acceptor layers, which is highly facilitated by BHJs.5
Formerly, the acceptor layer in BHJs was once the most extensively used and highly electron-withdrawing PC61BM and PC71BM molecules.
Though they remained unbeatable for quite a lengthy period, their limited absorption in the visible and infrared spectrum, low structural flexibility, fixed morphology, and poor photostability, in addition to their high synthetic cost, increased the popularity of their counterparts, the non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs).6 The NFAs have made up for the limitations of fullerene acceptors due to their strong absorption and light-harvesting capability in the visible and near IR regions, easy and affordable synthesis, flexible frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs), enhanced thermal stability, and highly versatile molecular structure.7 In addition, they have made it possible for organic photovoltaics to reach a PCE of around 19% with apt polymer donors when only 11% is possible with their fullerene equivalents.8 Likewise, due to their structurally tunable electrochemical properties, NFA series, such as ITIC and Y6, have replaced fullerene acceptors revolutionarily and could attain greater PCE by the introduction of more electron-withdrawing and conjugated moieties at their peripheries.9
In this research work, a pyrrole-based NFA, PTBTP-4F (TPR), has been structurally modified by substitution of its end-capped electron-withdrawing 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-yl)-malononitrile acceptor moieties with seven different significantly electron-withdrawing or conjugated peripheral acceptors.
The optical band gap of this molecule was also seen to be only 2.08 eV due to its high intramolecular charge transfer and molecular stacking, which could be endorsed by its highly conjugated donor core.
Precisely, in the present work, the newly generated molecules had a TP donor core and seven different acceptors such as 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile (TP1), 6-cyano-3-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-1-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester (TP2), 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester (TP3), 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (TP4), 2-(6,7-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-cyclopenta[b]naphthalen-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (TP5), 2-(5-methylene-1-methylsulfanyl-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile (TP6), and 2-(1-chloro-5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile (TP7).
The results of the FMO evaluation were verified with the help of the peaks of the density of states, plotted using the PyMOlyze 1.1 program.16 This density of states actually determine the possibility of the existence of an electron in any specific energy level of the molecule and also help in evaluating the contribution of either donor or acceptor fragment of the molecules in raising the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) or the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO).
Taking the values of the charge hopping integral into account, it was anticipated that our derived molecules might act as proficient acceptors in the assortment of the photoactive layer.
Thus, the open-circuit photovoltage and the fill factor of all of the analyzed acceptors were computed with respect to the common donor molecule “PTB7-Th”.21 The values of these photovoltaic parameters, in addition to the light-harvesting efficiency, helped us to have a rough estimate of the best possible candidature of the designed acceptors for their futuristic applications in OPVs’ photoactive layer.
Molecular sketches of the molecules drawn using ChemDraw (blue = core, red = acceptors, and black as whole = reference).
The molecules were designed through the substitution of various acceptor molecules in the reference TPR.
These specific acceptors were utilized due to their strong electron-withdrawing capabilities and significant effect on the optical, electronic, morphological, and photovoltaic aspects of the overall molecule in the previously reported literature.
Additionally, the first three substituted acceptor groups (in TP1–TP3) differ from the reference molecule only with respect to the peripheral functional groups, i.e., cyano (−CN) and acetyl (−COOCH3) instead of the fluoro groups.
These −CN and −COOCH3 groups were utilized due to their increased unsaturation not being present in the fluoro of TPR.29 Furthermore, the acceptors of the next two molecules TP4 and TP5 had an additional phenyl ring from the others, and between these two, the only difference was fluoro atoms; this way, their varying behavior from the reference and between themselves could be effectively studied.
Additionally, the point of substitution of these acceptor groups was retained just as the one in the reference molecule so that only the effect of varying acceptors could be studied without the hindrance of the substitution position (another vast topic in the field of OPVs).30
These optimized geometries are revealed in Figure 3, where the site of substitution between the donor and acceptor groups is indicated as well.
It was seen that the new acceptor groups helped in retaining the overall planarity of the molecules.
The entire structure of the molecules was seen to be quite planar, except for the substituted four phenyl rings on the donor component of the molecules, which could help in conjugation and, thus, intramolecular charge transfer between two opposing regions of the molecule.31
The effect of substituted acceptors on their point of attachment was evaluated with the help of two easily understood bond parameters, i.e., the bond length and the dihedral angle.64 It is generally known that for the evaluation of the presence of effective conjugation at any bond, a strong indication is through the bond length.32 If the bond length of a bond between two carbon atoms is in between the C–C bond length of 1.54 Å and the double one of 1.34 Å (C=C), then the bond is said to be conjugated.
From the numerical values of bond lengths in Table 2, it is seen that all of the bond lengths fall under the aforestated range and, thus, are a clear indication of the conjugation within the molecules between the acceptor and donor components.
Among all, the lowest bond length was measured for TP1 and TP2, making them better in terms of conjugation between the acceptor and donor components.
It was seen that though the reference molecule was quite planar with little-to-no torsion in-between both fragments (donor and acceptors), the designed molecules (except TP1 and TP4) seemed to have even greater planarity than the reference, as illustrated by their lower corresponding dihedral angles.
Though the dihedral angles of TP1 and TP4 are slightly higher than that of the TPR molecule, they are not that much higher to be of much importance, and thus it could be said that all of the molecules, due to their planar configuration and conjugated bonds, between the donor and acceptor fragments could have an effective charge transfer within their structures, which might help in enhancing the overall photo-to-electric conversion efficiency (PCE) of the molecules.33
Generally, if the HOMO electronic density is concentrated over the donor region of the molecule, while the LUMO is more toward the acceptor components, then the effective transfer of an electron from the donor region toward the acceptor could take place within the molecule.35 From Figure 4, it is seen that though the HOMO wave function of all of the molecules of this study follows the aforementioned trend, nevertheless, the LUMO wave function is distributed all over the molecule’s plane, especially in TP6 and TP7.
Therefore, the lowest lying HOMO and LUMO energy levels among all were seen to be of TP1, which points toward the probable proficient attributes of its corresponding acceptor fragments to stabilize the FMOs.
On the contrary, the highest LUMO value of TP4 suggests its high open-circuit photovoltage if considered as an acceptor component in the photoactive layer of analogous OSC.362The above eq 2 was used to evaluate the band gap (Eg) between the FMOs (i.e., EHOMO = HOMO’s energy and ELUMO = LUMO’s energy).
At this point, the lowest band gap of TP1 illustrates the enhanced electron-transferring characteristic of this molecule, which might be accredited to the high number of electron-withdrawing and highly unsaturated cyano groups present in its newly introduced acceptors.
These density of states (DOS) are quite helpful in determining the probability of any electron residence within a specific energy state (either FMOs or any other) and helps in evaluating the participation of any component of a molecule (donor or acceptor) in developing the FMOs.29 In the graphs of DOS, the vertical axis depicts the relative intensities of the energy levels, while the lower horizontal axis portrays the energy in electron volts (eV).
For the generation of curve plots of DOS, the structures of the molecules were fragmented into separated donor and acceptor components; this way, the contribution of both of them in the total DOS was easy to assess.
As a result, in Figure 5, the sharp black peaks portray the total DOS of the overall molecule, while the blue and red ones depict the partial DOS of the donor core and the acceptor fragments, respectively.
Total and partial DOS of the fragments (acceptor and core) of the molecules.
Thus, the effective charge dispersal abilities of the molecules could be seen by the greater contribution of the donor core toward HOMO and vice versa.
Here, it can be seen that the percentage contribution of the LUMO energy level in all three molecules is directly associated with the greater number of the CN groups, which is why TP1, with its highest number of cyano groups, has the highest LUMO percentage of the acceptor groups.
Moreover, despite the rather similar acceptor groups in both TP4 and TP5, the presence of a greatly electron-withdrawing fluoro group at the margins of TP5 has slightly enhanced the acceptor contribution in LUMO development.
Likewise, the chloro group in the acceptor of TP7 has increased its acceptor’s LUMO percentage as opposed to the TP6 molecule.
Similarly, the greater electron-withdrawing capability of the fluoro group of acceptors of TP5 could also be the reason behind its higher λmax.
The dipole moment is quite imperative in determining the stability of the molecules in the given medium, and its higher numerical value promotes crystallinity and charge carriers’ mobility between the molecules at the interface between the donor and acceptor components at the photoactive layer of solar cells.
The high value of dipole moment can also lead to a reduced number of disorder-influenced trap states, which in turn could enhance the fill factor of the molecule.42 Generally, a greater value of dipole moment in the solvent phase than in the gas phase justifies the utilization of the considered chromophores through solution-processable techniques of OPV construction, which makes our proposed chromophores quite sustainable in the chosen chloroform solvent.43 Furthermore, the highest dipole moments of TP6 could be chalked up to be due to the two-five-membered ring framework (cyclopenta[c]thiophene) of its terminal acceptor moieties having perpendicular −SCH3 groups.
The lower dipole moment of TP7, despite its similar structure to TP6, could be due to its lowest dihedral angle and highly planar structure throughout the acceptor rings.
TDM analysis is known to be an effective approach to examine the electronic dispersion, as well as charge separation and transition sites after photon absorption in the molecule under consideration.66 It also demonstrates the quantum geometric features and the electronic transition between the acceptor and donor parts of the molecules.48 The TDM study of all of the examined molecules was performed at the selected level of TD-DFT-D3, and 3D colored visualizations of the obtained results were created using the Multiwfn 3.7 application.
This is the reason behind their exclusion in this analysis of the TDMs of the researched molecules.49 The thus generated TDM plots were segmented into two portions: the donor core (C) and end-capped acceptor moieties (A), according to the number of atoms present along their lower x and left y-axes (Figure 7).
This presence of charge density in the core of the molecules illustrates the electron richness of their donor regions.
On the other hand, only TP6 and TP7 show high charge density even at the terminal ends of their acceptor regions, which portrays better charge dispersal over the whole plane of both these molecules.
This distribution of charge density could be ascribed to the high planarity between the cores and highly electron-withdrawing acceptors of these molecules.
Taking these values into account, it was assumed that our proposed molecules might perform as superior acceptors.
Consequently, these four molecules might be proficient acceptors in the blend of organic materials in the photoactive layer.
It is observable from Figure 8 that negative potential sites are essentially present on the acceptors of the studied molecules because of the more electronegative, as well as unsaturated nitrogen and oxygen atoms present there, which pulls the electron density toward themselves and increases their electrostatic potential.
Furthermore, these distinct colored areas demonstrate a great extent of charge separation in these structures, which could promote effective charge dispersal between the central donor and the peripheral acceptors.
In the case of the proposed molecules, the better separation of electron potential in them as compared to TPR indicates excellent charge-withdrawing properties of these newly introduced acceptors.
Individually, the darkest blue shade could be seen in the TP1 molecule, which shows the highest electron-withdrawing attributes of its cyano groups, but this enhanced blue zone might lower its chances as an efficient acceptor in the photoactive layer because it is seen to be spread over the whole molecule, whether acceptor or donor, which could reduce the overall charge separation and electron-withdrawing abilities of the molecule.
This illustrates their more enhanced aptitude as either donor or acceptor material in the blend of organic materials in the photoactive layer than TPR.
Exclusively, between λelectron and λhole, the relatively lower electron reorganization energy values of all of the molecules of study support our statement of the newly proposed molecules being proficient acceptors.
But overall, it could be said that both the reorganization energy and charge integral for electrons of TP4–TP7 were seen to be better than the reference molecule, making them quite effective acceptor molecules.
Therefore, it was evaluated that our newly reported molecules, excluding TP3, might act as better acceptors than the reference molecule.
The low electron mobility properties of TP3 could be accredited to the less electron-withdrawing acetyl groups present at the terminal ends of its acceptors.
Among the researched acceptors in Table 10, the highest oscillating strength (f), which is an important parameter related directly to the light-harvesting efficiency (ηλ), was seen to be of the TP4 molecule (with TP5 being a close second) in both the evaluated mediums.
Comparatively, the identical ηλ of TP6 and TP7 (as well as TP4 and TP5) in both the mediums could simply be ascribed to the similar ring skeleton of their acceptor groups.
On the contrary, the rather low values of ηλ in TP1 and TP2 could be said to be due to the high cyano groups in their similar acceptor ring skeletons, which, while enhancing the optoelectronic attributes of the molecules, might have lowered their oscillating power and, by association, the light-harvesting efficiency.
It greatly depends on the temperature, intensity of light, and, most importantly, the FMOs of the donor and acceptor materials at the interface.
Basically, for the determination of the VOC, the FMOs of both the donor and acceptor are aligned adequately, and with the help of eq 15,60 its numerical value is determined.15In this equation, e = 1 and is the charge on the molecules, while 0.3 is the empirical value employed to eliminate any probable overestimation in the theoretical determination of VOC.
Furthermore, the terms in parenthesis depict the difference in-between LUMO’s value of the acceptor molecule and HOMO’s value of the donor.
Therefore, this equation portrays the relation between the FMOs of the considered molecules in the photoactive layer.61 Here, as all studied molecules were taken as acceptors, a commonly known and prominent donor for theoretical computations, i.e., PTB7-Th, was utilized in association with them.
FMOs of both the participating acceptor and donor molecules, with their computed open-circuit photovoltages.
This could be ascribed to its highly stabilized LUMO value that, while increasing its optoelectronic parameters, decreased the needed gap between TP1’s LUMO and donor’s HOMO and eventually lowered its open-circuit voltage value.
On the other hand, the highest VOC could be provided by TP4 and TP6 acceptor molecules due to their highly reactive LUMO energy levels.
At this point, it can be postulated that the presence of cyano groups at the peripheries of the terminal acceptors of the chromophore, while increasing the various charge-transfer and conjugation-related attributes by stabilizing the LUMO energy level, could lower the overall efficiency of the molecules.
In addition, the basic framework of introduced acceptors might be a significant reason behind the increased photovoltaic properties of the molecules, as TP4 and TP5, as well as TP6 and TP7, have identical ring skeletons and correspondingly better VOCs.
The lowest FF of TP1 could be ascribed to its lowest VOC value (attained due to its lowest LUMO value), which despite its remarkable optoelectronic attributes, lowered its potential as a prospective acceptor in the active layer of NFA-based OPVs.
Seven acceptor molecules based on the TP core of the PTBTP-4F molecule were designed to seek high optoelectronic and photovoltaic parameters of the corresponding molecules.
Upon careful characterization of the theoretical computations performed on the presented molecules, it was seen that, attributed to the high level of conjugation and planarity between their acceptor and donor regions, they all demonstrated phenomenal optoelectronic properties with respect to the TPR molecule.
Furthermore, due to their seemingly higher electron mobility, lower ionization potential values, and higher electron affinities, all of the molecules of this study were perceived to be better acceptors in the blends of the photoactive layer on OSCs than donors.
Most importantly, the highest photovoltaic parameters of TP4 and TP6 molecules, with that of TP5 and TP7 being comparable to TPR, alleviated them to be better acceptors in terms of overall utilizations in the photoactive layer of OPV cells.
To create a driving force toward charge separation in spite of this strong interaction, a commonly employed method is the use of a bulk heterojunction, which is comprised of domains of donor and acceptor materials.
In such devices, excitons must diffuse to a donor–acceptor interface, where the charge separation can occur.
The size of these donor and acceptor domains is an important consideration for such devices, since too large domains prevent the excitons to reach an interface due to their limited lifetime, whereas too small domains prevent the successful transport of separated charges to their respective electrodes.7,8
Experimental work has been done to increase the static dielectric constant of donor and acceptor materials that are commonly used in OPVs.4,11−19 One recurring method is to introduce a flexible and polar ethylene glycol chain to fullerene derivatives, small molecules, and polymers.
For the calculation of ϵ∞, fullerene C60 derivatives were chosen, as they are among the most commonly used acceptor materials due to their optical and electronic properties and relatively high electron mobility.
Push-pull organic molecules are characterized by an electron-withdrawing substituent, the acceptor (A), and an electron-donating substituent, the donor (D), linked by π conjugated bridges.
A lot of multi-branched chromophores have been synthesized with varying donor-π-acceptor configurations, as well as different π-bridging units, and different donor-acceptor strengths in order to achieve different structure-function relationships [31,32].
TA spectra recorded as a function of electron-donating substitutes and solvent polarity highlighted that the molecules with stronger donors (THHBI-triphenylamine (PhNPh2)) in more polar solvent underwent faster excited-state ICT relaxation, leading to the formation of solvent-stabilized ICT state which decays by fluorescence emission to the ground state (Figure 1).
The dyes with relatively weaker donors showed instead a weaker dependence on solvent polarity, and an Inter System Crossing (ISC) from ICT state to the triplet state [28] (see Figure 1).
Different D–π–A cationic systems with a methyl pyridinium or quinolinium as the electron-deficient group, a dimethyl amino as the electron-donor group, and an ethylene or butadiene group as the spacer have been investigated in a joint spectroscopic and TD-DFT computational study by Carlotti and colleagues [37].
Coulomb Attenuated Method in combination with the Becke’s three-parameter hybrid functional (B3) with the Lee, Yang, and Parr (LYP) expression for the nonlocal correlation (CAM-B3LYP) [68] and Becke’s Half-and-Half functional (BHandH) [69] were disclosed to provide the best agreement between computed and experimental vertical absorption energies for a set of push-and-pull systems based on 4,5-diyannoimidazole (DCI) as an acceptor group [12].
Another example of the SRSH-PCM scheme performance was reported for functionalized anthracenes as electron donors and tetracyanoethylene as acceptor both solvated in methylene chloride, where the calculated excited state energies accurately reproduced the measured benchmark values [79].
For instance, DFT simulations of donor–acceptor Stenhouse adducts have shown that the photocyclization switch highly weakens the first hyperpolarizability owing to the loss of conjugation that affects the non-linear optics responses [87].
Accordingly, organic photovoltaics (OPVs) require a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure composed of a bicontinuous network of electron donor and acceptor materials (positive [p] and negative [n] semiconductors, respectively), which offers an energetic driving force for efficient charge separation at the enlarged interfacial area [9, 10].
To address this issue, the author incorporated perylenebisimide (PBI) into a poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) film, which acts both as an electron acceptor to increase φ and as a spectroscopic probe to determine φ [89, 90], because the PBI radical anion has a characteristic photoabsorption and a large extinction coefficient at ~720 nm [91].
A mixture of a donor and an acceptor is similar to the BHJ framework of OPVs, while soluble fullerenes ([6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester: PCBM and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester: PC71BM) are commonly used as n-type semiconductors.
5a, is a weak electron acceptor but could act as a weak electron donor against strong electron acceptors.
First, the author synthesized three random copolymers of BBTz coupled with benzothiadiazole (BT) or thienopyrroledione (TPD) as the acceptor and carbazole as the donor [97].
The ML study of polymer:fullerene acceptor (FA) was further evolved to polymer:nonfullerene (NFA) that recently demonstrated a remarkable improvement in PCE of up to ~18% [124–127].
Among numerous derivatives of this polyaromatic hydrocarbon, perylene diimide (PDI) represents a promising class of organic materials envisioned as non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) for the practical organic photovoltaic (OPV) applications due to their enhanced photo- and thermal stability and remarkably high electron affinity, some of which realize band-like transport properties.
The present review guides some of the representative achievements in the development of rationally designed PDI systems, highlighting synthetic methodologies based on bay-functionalization strategies for creating well-designed molecular nanostructures and structure-performance relationship of perylene-based small molecular acceptors (SMAs) for the photovoltaic outcomes.
Because of the electron-rich nature, the native perylene acts as an electron donor, playing a p-type semiconductor material in contact with electron-deficient molecules such as bromine.
The work has demonstrated that the PTCBI layer obviously served as an electron-acceptor, extracting electrons from CuPc at their interfaces, to enhance the photovoltaic performance, demonstrating that the nature of organic–organic interfaces is the principal determinant of photovoltaic properties.
Their OPV devices have been fabricated with sublimated metal-free phthalocyanine (H2Pc) donor and N,N′-dimethyl-substituted PDI (Pigment Red 179) acceptor to deposit three organic layers, which contain an interlayer (i-layer) of co-deposited donor/acceptor pigments between homogeneous layers of the two respective constituents.
This work has ascertained that the pigment mixing enlarges the donor/acceptor interface to dramatically improve the photogeneration efficiency (Figure 2) [15].
The development of the three-layered p-i-n structure, where p and n denote the donor and acceptor layers, respectively, has emphasized the importance of the BHJ active layer to overcome the limitations of OPV performance for the conventional planar heterojunction (PHJ) systems.
Furthermore, the work has highlighted the potential utility of buckminsterfullerene (C60) derivatives as the electron acceptor (i.e., n-type semiconductor) because of their high electron conductivity.
In the actual systems, two types of soluble phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl esters, namely [6,6]- and [5,6]-PC61BMs, were employed to fabricate the BHJ blend films with a donor of poly(2-methoxy-5-(2′-ethylhexyloxy)-1,4-phenylene vinylene), denoted as MEH-PPV, which were deposited by spin-cast from xylene and 1,2-dichlorobenzene solutions (Figure 3).
In contrast to a wide variety of the p-type semiconductor donor materials available nowadays, there is a very limited option of the n-type counterparts [25,26].
As a matter of fact, the current OSCs are being made with π-conjugated donor polymers that exhibit efficient hole transporting properties and good chemical compatibility with small molecular acceptors (SMAs) to tailor microcrystalline film morphologies of the polymer/SMA BHJ blends [27].
Despite the highly productive results obtained in many research works, the design-to-device approach based on fullerene acceptors suffers from inherent poor absorbance in the UV-visible region and limited tunability in terms of synthetic flexibility, cost efficiency, and amenability to scale-up manufacturing [29].
Thus, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have recently emerged as promising alternatives to the conventional fullerene-based acceptors [30].
Indeed, the highest PCE of the state-of-the-art OSC based on Y6 has already reached over 17%, when coupled with complementary polymeric donor PM6 (Figure 4) [32,33].
The monomeric perylene derivatives have been utilized as efficient n-type acceptor materials in the heterojunction OSCs of many pioneering works, which have been fabricated via vacuum sublimation [14,15].
Relatively small molecular dimensions of the monomeric perylene π-systems may present some disadvantageous situations to result in less ordered face-on stacking of the perylene units upon immersion with p-type donor materials, leading to the formation of inefficient carrier transport pathways in the solution-processed devices [58].
Among these entries, the p-propylphenyl-substituted 2.1A achieved the highest PCE of 0.77% and remarkably enhanced fill factor (FF) of 0.66, albeit with moderately low open circuit-voltage (Voc) of 0.63 V and short-circuit current (JSC) of 1.93 mA cm−2 in the OPV device fabricated with a polymeric donor P3HT by using 1% DIO, while the corresponding devices with 3a and 3b provided moderate PCEs of 0.37% and 0.39%, respectively.
Fortunately, 2.2A exhibited intense absorption in the green spectral region, where the donor material exhibited relatively weak absorption.
The PDI 2.3A has been used to fabricate a solution-processed OSC with a low band gap polymeric donor PTB7-Th that has achieved prominent PCE records over 10% in many other devices [79].
This new PDI 2.4A, which exhibited high solubility in common organic solvents, was then subjected to blending with a chloroform (CF) solution of the polymeric donor PTB7-Th to fabricate a spin-coated BHJ film for the OPV application.
Taking into account the optical band gap of 1.57 eV obtained from the BHJ blend of 2.4A/PTB7-Th, voltage loss (Vloss) of the device was estimated to be as low as 0.57 V, which is much smaller than that of the referential PDI with 0.82 V. On the basis of highly sensitive action spectrum measurements on incident photon to current efficiency (IPCE), the above observation could be rationalized in terms of effective suppression of non-radiative recombination losses, which are attributable to a decreased LUMO-LUMO energy offset between the PTB7-Th and 2.4A donor and the acceptor materials.
The dimeric PDIs 3.1A and 3.1B, which exhibited high solubilities because of the twisted molecular geometries and the solubilizing effects of the swallow-tails, were then blended with a polymeric donor PDBT-T1 at donor/acceptor ratios of 1:1 to fabricate the active layers via spin-casting from the CB solutions followed by thermal annealing.
In an initial investigation for the OPV application, 3.2A was blended with the polymeric donor P3HT at a donor/acceptor ratio of 1:1.
In another work, 3.2A has been applied for more efficient OPV devices by blending with a newly designed polymeric donor P3TEA developed by Gundogdu, Gao, Yan, and coworkers [102].
In practice, the OPV devices fabricated using a blend at a donor/acceptor ratio of 1:1.5 were shown to reproduce an impressive average PCE of 9.13% for 30 devices under 1 sun illumination, giving the average of the following photovoltaic parameters: Voc of 1.11 V, JSC of 13.15 mA cm−2, and FF of 0.627.
In this situation, the energy of the CT state (ECT) is very close to that of singlet exciton of the lower band gap donor component in the blend (Egap), which presented a conclusive picture that the driving force for charge separation (Egap-ECT) is extremely small or nearly negligible.
According to the reports on the bay-linked and bay-bridged dimeric PDIs, nonplanar perylene-based materials have beneficial effects on suppression of undesirable phase separation from the donor materials, leading to preferable morphological properties to achieve enhanced cell performances.
The compounds 3.3A, 3.3B, and 3.3C were applied as NFA materials to fabricate the respective BHJ blends spin-coated with the polymeric donor PTB7-Th at donor/acceptor ratios of 1:1 in CB solutions containing the solvent additive DIO.
As a further elaborated design concept, covalently linked trimeric or tetrameric PDI systems, which could adopt propeller-like geometries, are expected to offer superior material properties compared to the structurally simpler monomeric and dimeric PDIs due to the spatially extended arrays of perylene nuclei, ensuring efficient intermolecular π–π contacts between the donor and acceptor materials.
This feature led to good miscibility with the polymeric donor PTB7-Th, as confirmed by grazing incidence X-ray diffraction (GIXD) studies.
Systematic exploration of the preparative conditions at various donor/acceptor ratios led to the optimum results obtained in the photovoltaic characterization when the donor/acceptor ratio was set as 1:1.5.
The trimeric PDIs 3.4B and 3.4C were applied to photovoltaic characterization by fabrication of BHJ blends with the polymeric donor PDBT-T1 with the donor/acceptor ratios of 1:1, identified as an optimal stoichiometric balance for both devices.
The potential utility of 3.4D and 3.4E was demonstrated by measuring photovoltaic properties of the respective BHJ active layers, being fabricated by spin-coating the blend solutions containing the polymeric donor P3TEA and tiny amount of a solvent additive 1,8-octanedithiol (ODT) in 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene (TMB) at the donor/acceptor ratios of 1:1.5 and the following thermal annealing.
Besides, the observed higher JSC and FF of the device based on 3.4E were explained as a consequence of several enhancement factors, such as high light absorption capability, better energetic and absorption match of the SMA with the donor material because of the lifted LUMO level, and improved molecular packing of the active layer due to beneficial impact of the “double-decker” geometry of the SMA on enhancing charge transport ability.
The most noteworthy attempt in this work is the introduction of a new solvent additive 4,4′-biphenol (BPO) that leads to improved crystallinity of active layers via enhancing supramolecular interactions between the donor and acceptor materials.
The BHJ blends were prepared from the respective materials and the polymeric donor PTTEA, which can be substantially recognized as an architectural congener of P3TEA with a nearly identical structure, in TMB at the donor/acceptor ratios of 1:1.5.
There have been a number of successful attempts to develop perylene-based NFAs that can provide potential activity in photovoltaic systems to promote efficient light to electric power conversion as viable substitutes for fullerene acceptors when coupled with suitable donor materials.
According to the literature data, schematic energy level diagrams of the donor and PDI materials used in the OPV devices are represented in Figure 6.
The azulene moiety plays a pivotal role here as it is polar resonance stabilized and protonation leads to a drift in its electron density from the seven-membered ring to the five-membered ring generating a stable tropylium cation making it a strong electron acceptor during the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) process.
In 2015, Zhang, Liu, and co-workers [36] reported the synthesis of conjugated donor–acceptor (D–A)-type azulene-dithienyldiketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) polymers 69, 71, and 72.
The polymer 69 behaved like an electron donor for organic PV cells and the blend of thin-film 69 with PC71BM showed a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 2.04%.
These polymers were also tested as electron acceptors for all-polymer solar cell (PSC) devices, and 81 in particular, showed a power conversion efficiency (PCE) value of 1.82%.
The incorporation of noble metal nanoparticles, displaying localized surface plasmon resonance, in the active area of donor-acceptor bulk-heterojunction organic photovoltaic devices is an industrially compatible light trapping strategy, able to guarantee better absorption of the incident photons and give an efficiency improvement between 12% and 38%.
A BHJ is a thin film consisting of a blend between: (i) a p-doped electron-donor/hole-transporter phase (e.g.
a polymer), and (ii) n-type, hole-donor/electron-transporter phase (e.g.
Single junction OPVs typically consist of the following stacked layers: glass substrate, transparent conductive oxide, hole-donor interlayer (e.g.
The ideal BHJ nanostructure is a compromise between complete separation of the donor-acceptor phases and close interpenetration5.
A Grazing Incidence Wide Angle X-Ray Scattering (GI-WAXS) study recently showed that, by introducing Cu2S NPs in the BHJ, the self-organized nano-structural evolution of the donor-acceptor phases can be finely tuned16.
The investigation of donor-acceptor Grazing Incidence X-Ray Diffraction (GI-XRD) patterns before and after the annealing is a powerful tool for understanding the evolution dynamics of the nano-morphology of the two materials during thermal or solvent annealing171819202122.
To the best of our knowledge, there are not any reported comprehensive synchrotron GI-XRD investigations on the effects of Au and Ag NPs on the structural properties of the donor-acceptor phases in OPVs bulk-heterojunctions.
on the effect of Cu2S NPs on the nano-structural evolution of the donor-acceptor phases16, we investigate the effect of commercial Au and Ag NPs in the P3HT: PCBM bulk-heterojunction.
Here, zinc-doped CuGaS/ZnS core/shell quantum dots (ZQD) were used as energy transferring donor with high QY to improve the performance of the LSC.
Because RMC exhibits significant absorption between 400 and 600 nm, it can absorb the strongly emitted energy from ZQD at 471 nm as an energy acceptor.
To investigate the contribution of ZQD as an energy donor to the efficiency of dual-dye LSC devices, we added 0.08 mg/mL of ZQD solution to RMC solutions at various concentrations from 0 to 1.13 mg/mL.
The PL quenching efficiency of donor and energy sensitization efficiency of acceptor were estimated from the PL intensities of ZQD and RMC.
Donor quenching increased according to acceptor concentration; however, acceptor sensitization reached a maximum at a ZQD:RMC concentration ratio of 0.08:0.50 (mg/mL).
In this study, to improve the power conversion efficiency of the solar cells, the deposited CdS QDs on the nc-TiO2 film were used to increase the UV-visible (UV–vis) absorption of the cells and the interfacial area between the electron donor and electron acceptor.
The roughness of the ITO/nc-TiO2/CdS(5) thin film for 0.5 × 0.5 μm2 is about 48 nm, which is much higher than that of the TiO2 nanocrystalline film, suggesting that the introduction of CdS nanoparticles may lead to a more larger interfacial area between the electron donor and acceptor.
On one hand, it is known that Voc is mainly dominated by the energy level difference between the donor highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the acceptor lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels in the polymer bulk heterojunction solar cells.
In our case, before the deposition of CdS, the electron acceptor materials are TiO2 and PCBM.
However, after the introduction of CdS, CdS also works as an electron acceptor.
Apparently, the effective LUMO level of the acceptor should be determined by three acceptor materials, i.e., TiO2, PCBM, and CdS.
Importantly, the CB level (−3.7 eV) of CdS is higher than that (−4.2 eV) of TiO2[22], which probably enhances the effective LUMO level of the acceptor and the energy level difference between the HOMO of donor and the LUMO of acceptor levels, ultimately increasing the Voc of the cells with CdS compared to the ITO/nc-TiO2/P3HT:PCBM/Ag cell without CdS.
The increased interfacial area between the donor and acceptor as shown in Figure 2 after the deposition of CdS on TiO2 may be the second reason, which makes more excitons dissociate into free electrons and holes.
DESs can be defined as a mixture of a strongly Lewis acidic metal halide and an oxygen donor amide ligand, such as urea, acting as a Lewis base.
At the interface between the donor and acceptor, photoinduced electron transfer generates holes and electrons that can be collected at the electrodes after being transported via the donor and acceptor materials.
As most existing photochromic dyes are not capable of efficient charge transport, it is more appropriate to incorporate photochromic molecules as sensitizers in a ternary blend in which the donor and acceptor materials ensure adequate charge transport, but are weakly absorbing in the visible range of the spectrum (Fig.
Subsequent absorption of visible light by the colored isomer of the photochromic dye generates an excited state which dissociates into a hole and electron on the donor and acceptor materials (Fig.
The photoactive layer is a ternary blend containing a photo-switchable dye (DAE) and organic donor and acceptor semiconductors for hole (poly-TPD) and electron transport (PC61BM).
After switching the DAE dye with UV light from the colorless open-ring to the colored closed-ring isomer, absorption of visible light generates holes on the donor and electrons on the acceptor.
For efficient charge generation, the energy levels of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the colored isomer of the photochromic dye should be positioned below the HOMO level of the donor, while the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) should be higher than that of the acceptor.
In addition, the photochromic dye has to be spatially arranged to be simultaneously in electronic contact with the donor and acceptor materials.
In this way, holes and electrons generated on the dye can be transported to the electrodes via the HOMO of the donor and LUMO of the acceptor.
In this concept, the donor and acceptor govern the effective transport gap and thereby the open-circuit voltage.
For a working photochromic solar cell, the dyes must have appropriate energy levels for the HOMO LUMO compared to donor and acceptor materials used for charge transport to be able to generate free charges (Fig.
In this study poly(4-butylphenyldiphenylamine) (poly-TPD) and [6,6]-phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) are used as donor as acceptor, respectively.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of an intramolecular oxidation of a Corr within electron‐donor–acceptor conjugates by means of just photoexcitation.
Corrole acts as electron donor upon photoexcitation, with subphthalocyanine as the final acceptor.
Overall, the effectiveness of long‐range charge transfer relies on the suppression of charge recombination, that would interrupt the process and cause a waste of the absorbed energy.3 Despite the complexity of the photosynthetic conversion of light, designing, synthesizing, and probing multicomponent electron donor‐acceptor systems including covalent/non‐covalent multidiads (i.e.
Third, the excited states should transfer its energy to either the energy or charge acceptors unidirectionally.
Notably, a variety of multicomponent electron‐donor–acceptor systems have been subjected to photoinduced energy and charge‐transfer studies.
Tetra‐ and tripyrrolic macrocycles play a key role in the composition of the aforementioned electron‐donor–acceptor systems: porphyrins (Pors),5 phthalocyanines (Pcs),6 corroles (Corrs),7 and subphthalocyanines (SubPcs),8 to just name a few.
Moreover, the ease of corroles oxidation, if compared with the porphyrin analogues, makes them ideal candidates as electron donor in the multicomponent conjugate.12
In terms of electron acceptors, fullerenes have dominated the field of multicomponent electron‐donor–acceptor systems.13 Despite the fact that fullerenes promote efficient charge transfer, they feature a number of drawbacks.
In the current work, we report the synthesis of two different Corr‐Pc electron‐donor–acceptor conjugates and their self‐assembly by means of metal coordination with a pyridine‐appended SubPc to afford multicomponent electron‐donor–acceptor arrays (Figure 1).
We prepared different (meso)Corr‐ZnPc electron‐donor–acceptor arrays, in which ZnPcs are linked to the 10‐meso‐ positions of Corrs via an ethynylphenyl spacer.
Corr acts as electron donor after photoexcitation, while Pc and SubPc function as primary and secondary electron acceptor, respectively.
Our study demonstrates that the careful choice of a series of porphyrinoids with an appropriate energy level alignment enables the formation of long‐lived CS states once photoexcited, without, however, the need of a fullerene as final electron acceptors.
In this work, we present the design, synthesis, characterization, and application in LSCs of a series of orange/red organic emitters featuring a benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene 1,1,5,5-tetraoxide central core as an acceptor (A) unit.
The latter was connected to different donor (D) and acceptor (A′) moieties by means of Pd-catalyzed direct arylation reactions, yielding compounds with either symmetric (D–A–D) or non-symmetric (D–A–A′) structures.
In general, symmetric structures showed better photophysical properties for the application in LSCs than their non-symmetric counterparts, and using a donor group of moderate strength such as triphenylamine was found preferable.
Accordingly, in this paper, we report the design, synthesis, and spectroscopic characterization of a series of organic emitters featuring a benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene 1,1,5,5-tetraoxide system as a central acceptor unit connected to different electron-donating and electron-withdrawing substituents.
We also envisioned a second array of compounds based on a non-symmetric structure, in which the same donor groups were introduced only on one side of the molecules, while on the other an additional electron-withdrawing cyanobenzene unit was placed, yielding a D–A–A′ architecture (BDT-H1,O1,S1, Figure 1, right).
Indeed, its peculiar A′–A–A′ arrangement should not be capable of yielding ICT transitions, thus providing a potentially interesting comparison to the other compounds featuring alternating donor–acceptor moieties.
In terms of energy, the destabilizing effect of the stronger donor groups on the occupied orbitals (and in particular the HOMOs) is evident in both the symmetric and non-symmetric emitter series, while the effect on the LUMOs was less pronounced.
Remarkably, the energy levels of non-symmetric compounds were all clearly stabilized due to the presence of the additional benzonitrile acceptor; such an effect was even more pronounced for compound BDT-AA featuring two lateral EWG groups.
Concerning the electron density distribution, in the case of the D–A–D compounds, the HOMOs were mostly localized on the lateral donor groups, with a minor contribution of the central core, while the LUMOs were centered on the acceptor BDT unit.
A similar tendency was also observed for the non-symmetric compounds, although in such cases, the HOMOs were mainly located on their single donor unit, while the LUMOs were widely delocalized over both the BDT central core and the additional acceptor.
Donor–acceptor compounds provided computed maximum emission values well above 600 nm, in agreement with expectations, with a very pronounced effect of the more electron-donating side groups.
First, central core 1 was desymmetrized by insertion of the three different donor groups seen above.
Symmetric D–A–D compounds (Figure 4a) exhibited relatively broad absorption features, peaked above 500 nm, which, in agreement with the results of the computational investigation (see above), were attributed to the ICT transition from the donor moiety to the acceptor core.
In particular, while BDT-H2 presented a maximum absorption wavelength (λmaxabs) at 530 nm, substituted analogues displayed 11–25 nm red-shifted maxima and absorption onsets in the order of donor group strength (BDT-O2 > BDT-S2), with very similar molar attenuation coefficients around 5 × 104 M–1 cm–1.
Indeed, in the presence of a very strong acceptor group such as BDT, the increased electron-donor capacity of the lateral groups of BDT-S2 and, especially, BDT-O2 compared to BDT-H2 could further emphasize the degree of ICT of the S0 → S1 transition, with the consequent need of an extended structural reorganization of the excited state.
Unfortunately, by changing the donor group from simple triphenylamine to the methoxy- and thiomethyl-substituted analogues, the same tendency toward a reduction of FQY observed above for the symmetric compounds was evidenced.
By combining this and all the previous observations, it can be inferred that the excited state reached in about 0.8 ps has a very strong CT character, with the electron density being mostly relocated on the acceptor groups present in the molecule.
Clearly, also in the case of BDT-H2, this behavior can be explained by invoking, after the initial light absorption, the attainment of a low-lying CT excited state which gets more stabilized in the more polar solvent: however, for BDT-H2, the decay of this excited state seems to be much slower than for BDT-H1, probably due to its symmetric structure devoid of additional electron-withdrawing groups, that reduces the strength of its donor–acceptor character.
Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that for these compounds in CH2Cl2 solution, the CT excited state was found to decay with much faster kinetics compared to the previous cases, and no sign of a SE band could be spotted after the initial state evolution, in agreement with the very pronounced donor–acceptor character of these compounds conferred by their strong electron-donating groups.
First of all, no formation of microscopic aggregates was observed in the PMMA films of BDT-O2,S2 (Figure S9b–d), possibly due to the substituents present on the 4-positions of the benzene rings of their donor groups, potentially altering their geometry in the solid state and hindering intermolecular interactions.
All donor–acceptor compounds gave excellent ηabs values close to or higher than 0.5 at their maximum concentration (a value of 1 indicating a perfect match), following an exponential trend vs maximum absorbance, as previously reported.65 The best result was given by BDT-O2, due to its red-shifted and broader absorption band compared to the other compounds.
The performance of BDT-H2 in terms of ηext is remarkable, appearing superior to those of other organic donor–acceptor fluorophores recently reported both by us and other research groups.16,42,65,67−69
A DFT and TD-DFT computational investigation revealed that compounds containing both donor and acceptor groups were expected to attain excited states characterized by a large degree of ICT upon photoexcitation, potentially yielding emissions in the red part of the spectrum accompanied by large Stokes shifts.
This study thus highlights that, in the case of organic emitters for LSCs, finding the right balance between the relative strengths of the connected donor and acceptor groups, as well as the most appropriate molecular architecture, is key to achieve the best compromise between all the relevant photophysical properties (light harvesting ability, maximum absorption wavelength, FQY, and Stokes shift), leading to solar collectors with optimized performances.
Titanium alkoxide is an electron acceptor and absorbs light with a wavelength lower than 500 nm.
The general photoactive layer (power generation layer) of organic thin-film solar cells is composed of p-type semiconductor material as an electron donor and n-type semiconductor material as an electron acceptor.
Fullerene derivatives, such as 6,6-phenyl-C61 or C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM60 or PCBM70), have been used as typical n-type semiconductor materials for electron acceptors.
Therefore, the development of air-stable electron acceptors is desired.
Previous studies from this perspective have reported organic–inorganic hybrid thin-film solar cells that use metal alkoxides and oxides as electron acceptors [22,23].
However, when titanium alkoxide is used as an electron acceptor, the PCE is only 0.03%, and the short-circuit current density (Jsc) is 191 μA/cm2 [22].
However, these methods, based on monomers with electron-accepting properties, are insufficient to efficiently suppress the self-assembly of polymers as electron donors.
In contrast, organic thin-film solar cells with bulk heterostructures that use polymers with electron acceptor properties have been reported.
However, the formation of dense phase-separated structures that are necessary for the construction of many charge-separated interfaces is not sufficient due to the self-aggregation of the electron-donor and electron-acceptor polymers [24].
This report details our attempt to control the phase-separated structure in the power generation layer by using both monomers and polymers, which have different self-aggregation and molecular hindrance properties, as electron acceptors.
In this report, p-type semiconducting polymeric compounds were used as the electron donor and titanium alkoxide was used as the monomer electron acceptor, and poly(benzimidazobenzophenanthroline) (BBL) as the polymer electron acceptor [25].
To create a co-continuous charge transport path in the acceptor, BBL, known to be a ladder polymer with strong self-aggregation, was employed as the electron acceptor [25,26].
It is worth noting that charge separation has been confirmed for each electron acceptor in combination with the p-type semiconducting polymer compound poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) [27].
By controlling the phase-separated structure of the three-component bulk heterostructures using monomer–polymer composite electron acceptors, we achieved high-performance charge management in bulk heterojunction thin-film solar cells.
For the photoactive layer, we used P3HT as the electron-donor material, titanium(IV) isopropoxide as the monomeric electron-acceptor material, and BBL as the polymeric electron-acceptor material.
For the n-type photoactive layer solution, a solution of P3HT (3.0 wt.%) was added to chlorobenzene (electron-donor solution), and a solution of titanium(IV) alkoxide (6.0 wt.%), methanesulfonic acid (1.2 wt.%), and BBL (0.5, 0.1, 0.15, 2.0, and 3.0 wt.%) dissolved in chlorobenzene was prepared.
When a monomer–polymer hybrid electron acceptor was used in the charge management layer, the Jsc value was higher than that of the device using only titanium alkoxide as a single electron acceptor.
In contrast, the use of the hybrid electron acceptor reduced the open-circuit voltage (Voc) from 0.632 V to a minimum of 0.451 V. As the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of BBL is lower than the LUMO of Ti-alkoxide, Voc decreased when BBL was added.
Next, the IPCE of each solar cell (red: solar cell with single electron acceptor (TiOx only); green: solar cell with hybrid electron acceptor (TiOx + BBL)) was investigated.
The IPCE of the solar cell with the hybrid electron acceptor was higher than the IPCE with the Ti-alkoxide single electron acceptor.
Therefore, in this case, it was found that the high value of Jsc in the cell using the hybrid electron acceptor influences the morphology of the charge management layer.
First, it is vital that the excitons generated by photoabsorption diffuse from the electron-donor polymer to the p/n interface.
The results show that, in comparison with the conventional single electron-acceptor system, the monomer–polymer hybrid electron acceptor dramatically improves the titanium(IV) isopropoxide network for carrier transport, without reducing the extent of the p/n interface.
Preferential self-assembly of the polymer as an electron donor is inhibited by the chemical bulk performance of the monomer as an electron acceptor and the self-assembled polymer.
The electron-donor p-type semiconducting polymer has a long chain and is sterically bulky, forming a large structure that affects the photoactive layer.
In addition, the conventional electron acceptor was only a monomer.
Therefore, the self-assembly of the electron acceptor was not preferential with respect to that of the electron donor.
Accordingly, the formation of the electron-donor phase becomes dominant, and the electron-acceptor phase is formed following the electron-donor phase structure.
Therefore, in conventional single electron-acceptor systems, phase formation occurs between polymer phases, and the structure of the electron acceptor becomes coarse and irregular.
However, in this monomer–polymer hybrid electron-accepting system, the preferential phase formation of the electron-donor polymer is prevented by the electron acceptor.
As a result, the electron donor and acceptor can each form a continuous phase-separated structure due to their individual self-assembly faculties.
Thus, compared with the conventional titanium(IV) isopropoxide system alone, titanium(IV) isopropoxide as an electron acceptor significantly improves the charge transport network, owing to its high electron transport capacity.
In this study, using a hybrid electron acceptor based on the BBL template formation mechanism, the power generation layer was templated into a co-continuous and finely phase-separated structure.
This is because the LUMO level of BBL is smaller than that of titanium(IV) isopropoxide, and when using it as a composite material to form the power generation layer, the apparent LUMO of the electron acceptor was lowered.
The bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cell is a third-generation solar cell that in its simplest configuration is comprised of two kinds of material, where one functions as an electron donor and the other functions as an electron acceptor.
The working mechanism can be summarized as follows: excitons created by incident photons will form in the donor material and migrate toward the interface between the donor and acceptor material.
The acceptor material, having a higher electron affinity with respect to the donor material, will accept the electron from the donor, causing exciton dissociation at the interface.
The subsequently separated hole polarons and electron polarons will travel through the donor and acceptor materials, respectively, towards their individual electrodes—anode for the holes and cathode for the electrons.
In this context, the advantage of a blend (as in a bulk heterojunction) is a larger interface area and an interpenetrating donor–acceptor morphology to minimize the distance that excitons must travel to reach an interface for dissociation.
The dominant configuration in the field of bulk heterojunction solar cells has consisted of a π-conjugated semiconducting polymer (termed just “polymer” in much of the remainder of this report) as the donor and the small molecule methanofullerene as the acceptor, where efficiencies have reached 11.7% for single junction lab-scale solar cells and 7%–9% for modules [9,10].
An alternative configuration is the use of II–VI inorganic semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) and conjugated polymers as the acceptor and donor, respectively.
They are more commonly used as the acceptor material (i.e., as the n-type component) in BHJ solar cells.
In the vast majority of photovoltaic bulk heterojunctions, a conjugated polymer is the donor (p-type component) due to the scarcity of n-type polymer acceptors with good stability, suitable energy levels and acceptable electron mobilities.
Small molecule methanofullerenes PC61BM and PC71BM are most commonly used as the acceptor components in all-organic binary blends.
As shown in Figure 1, the donor has a higher lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) than the conduction band minimum of the acceptor quantum dot, followed on the right side of the figure by a cathode made of a metal whose Fermi level is slightly lower or roughly proximate with the conduction band of the quantum dot.
Thus, the electron flows from the donor towards the cathode.
The valence band maximum of the acceptor is the lowest energy level; the next lowest is the donor’s highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO).
On the left side of the energy diagram in Figure 1, a material that has a Fermi level roughly proximate or slightly higher than the HOMO of the donor material is chosen as the anode.
In a BHJ solar cell, the electron generation usually happens in the donor material, as is the case in Figure 4, where the donor material is a conjugated polymer.
and several other reports [34,38,39,40], the exciton can be generated at the donor side or the acceptor side or on both sides simultaneously.
There is strong evidence for charge generation involving both donor and acceptor based on the action spectra plotted on the same graph as absorbance spectra as in Figure 5, where the combined efficiency becomes higher instead of lower as indicated in previous reports [40].
The conventional way is for the Frenkel exciton generated in the conjugated polymer (donor) to diffuse to the heterojunction interface, followed by exciton dissociation accompanied by electron transfer to the acceptor.
In quantum dot-conjugated polymer heterojunctions, the Wannier exciton generated in the quantum dot can be dissociated at the hetero-interface concomitant with hole transfer to the donor.
Marcus-type electron transfer and/or hole transfer between the donor and acceptor at the interface are short range phenomena, which is why they occur only very close (~1 nm) to the hetero-interface.
Förster-type resonance energy transfer (FRET) is an orientation-dependent Coulombic interaction between the donor and acceptor transition dipole moments that varies inversely with the sixth power of the inter-chromophoric distance and which is strongest when there is a large overlap between the emission spectrum of the exciton donor and the absorption spectrum of the acceptor [43].
For instance, a layer of a high work function hole collector such as poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS) or MoO3 is nearly always required to create an ohmic contact to the conjugated polymer donor in order to construct a high efficiency hybrid solar cell.
In this device configuration, the thoroughly mixed donor and acceptor domains result in a large interfacial area between the two.
At the same time the domains are kept small—on the order of the exciton diffusion length at around 10 nm—so that excitons can diffuse to the donor/acceptor interface and can therefore be dissociated into electrons and holes.
If continuous pathways are not formed, then recombination will occur as the free electron or hole reaches a second donor/acceptor interface, resulting in charge losses.
However, it is generally known that the miscibility of the donor and acceptor phases plays the largest role in the resulting film morphology, which is associated with the surface energy of the blending components [73].
When a CP is used as the donor material, it is desirable to have the LUMO band positioned above the QD acceptor conduction band so that photogenerated electrons can be injected from the donor to the acceptor.
Hole transporting layers are chosen to have a high work function, matching the high HOMO level of donor polymers and the work function of metal electrodes.
The desire for proper miscibility, phase segregation and good energy alignment between donor and acceptor materials has meant that considerable experimentation has occurred with different combinations of materials.
Some of the most commonly investigated donor conjugated polymers include P3HT, P3DT, PCPDTBT, MEH-PPV, and MDMO-PPV.
Lead chalcogenides, however, were unable to climb past efficiencies of 1% for many years due to poor heterojunctions between the QDs and the donor polymers; this was in part due to the small energy difference between valence band and HOMO energy levels.
Alloyed PbSxSe1−x QDs were used as the acceptor materials, previously shown to have an improved Isc and Voc [82].
If the crystallinity of either the donor, acceptor or both at a heterojunction interface is poor, there is a higher driving force needed for the dissociation of polaron pairs due to the lack of access to delocalized states promoting quick separation [88,89].
[23] exploited this concept in hybrid solar cells to obtain an efficiency of 4.8% in hybrid solar cells consisting of PbI2-passivated PbS QDs blended with the donor polymer poly[2,6-(4,4′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)dithieno[3,2-b:2′3′-d]silole)-alt-4,7-(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole)] (Si-PCPDTBT).
[106], who used CdTe nanorods or tetrapods as the acceptor in conjunction with a monoaniline end-capped conjugated polymer poly[(4,4′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-dithieno[3,2-b:2′,3′-d]silole)-2,6-diyl-alt-(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole)-4,7-diyl] (PSBTBT-NH2) as the donor.
In a hybrid solar cell based on a polymer–QD active layer, it is easier to obtain percolating paths for holes through the conjugated polymer (typically the donor) from cathode to anode due to the chain-like nature of the polymer and their plasticity, enabling them to form highly tortuous paths around the quantum dots.
[109] deployed a high concentration of II–VI semiconductor QDs in the active layer to obtain good electron percolation paths and used a polymerizable precursor to form the conjugated polymer donor around the QDs.
used a donor-(donor:acceptor)-acceptor (D-D:A-A) structure and an optimized blend ratio of the conjugated polymer poly(2,6-(N(1-octylnonyl)dithieno[3,2-b:20,30-d]pyrrole)-alt-4,7-(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole)) (PDTPBT) and PbSxSe alloyed QDs, respectively, to generate spontaneous vertical phase segregation as shown in Figure 18 [30].
A nematic liquid‐crystalline benzodithiophene terthiophene rhodamine (BTR) molecule, which possesses the same alkylthio‐thienyl‐substituted benzo moiety but obviously stronger crystallinity compared to classical medium‐bandgap polymeric donor PM6, is employed as a third component to construct ternary OSCs based on a PM6:BTR:Y6 system.
The doping of BTR (5 wt%) is found to be enough to improve the OSC morphology—significantly enhancing the crystallinity of the photoactive layer while slightly reducing the donor/acceptor phase separation scale simultaneously.
This result demonstrates that the successful synergy of liquid‐crystalline small‐molecule and polymeric donors delicately adjusts the active‐layer morphology and refines device performance, which brings vibrancy to the OSC research field.The nematic liquid‐crystalline small‐molecule donor benzodithiophene terthiophene rhodamine (BTR) works as a successful third component in PM6:Y6‐based organic solar cells.
The doping of BTR significantly enhances the crystallinity with slightly reducing donor/acceptor phase separation of the photoactive layer.
As organic semiconductors typically present low dielectric constant and short exciton diffusion length, the control of donor/acceptor (D/A) blend morphology, which is the integrated result of the nature of donors and acceptors (e.g., solubility, crystallinity, and miscibility), the film processing, and the device configuration, is crucial for achieving efficient charge separation, transport, and collection.
[  54  ] Early in 2015, by comparing successful and failed multiple‐donor systems, Yang and co‐workers found that the harmonious coexistence of two structural compatible polymeric donors (PTB7 and PBDTT‐SeDPP) endowed the PTB7:PBDTT‐SeDPP:PC71BM OSCs with a high PCE of 8.7%.
[  55  ] Also, the cooperation of ITCPTC and MeIC, two structure‐similar and absorption‐similar small‐molecule acceptors helps fine‐tune the crystallinity and phase separation of the PM6:ITCPIC:MeIC blend.
[  56  ] The polymeric donor (Si‐PCPDTBT) of strong crystallinity demonstrates a good example.
[  60  ] It is because the less crystalline BTR‐OH weakened the crystallinity of the donor phase and optimized the D/A phase separation to a suitable scale, and thereby balanced the hole and electron transport.
BTR is a high‐performing small‐molecule donor material with excellent optoelectronic properties and nematic liquid crystal behavior.
[  62  ] Last year, Zou group designed and synthesized a nonfullerene acceptor Y6, which features a ladder‐type electron‐deficient core‐based central fused ring (di‐thienothiophen[3.2‐b]‐pyrrolobenzothiadiazole) with a benzothiadiazole (BT) core.
Outstanding PCEs of 15–16% are achieved by using wide bandgap polymer donors like PM6.
This work elucidates the delicate effect of morphology tuning with the collaboration of liquid‐crystalline small‐molecule and polymeric donors and improves the OSC device performance.
By comparison, the nonfullerene acceptor Y6 exhibits much red‐shifted absorption onset of 922 nm, illustrating its ultranarrow bandgap of 1.34 eV.
Another important parameter of blend morphology, the donor/acceptor phase separation, is studied by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
In summary, we successfully designed an interesting ternary OSC based on harmonious coexistence of structural compatible nematic liquid‐crystalline small‐molecule donor (BTR) and polymeric donor (PM6) paired with NFA (Y6) that delivered a champion PCE of 16.6%, exceeding the PM6:Y6 and BTR:Y6 binary devices (15.7% and 4.0%).
Such a strategy manifests the successful synergy of liquid‐crystalline small‐molecule donor and polymeric donor, which provides an alternative guideline to further fine‐tune the morphology toward new breakthroughs in OSCs.
Further developing high‐performance Y6 derivative acceptor materials through the relationship between the chemical structures and properties of these materials will help accelerate the development of OPV.
Here, machine learning and quantum chemistry are used to understand the structure–property relationships and develop new OPV acceptor materials.
By encoding the molecules with an improved one‐hot code, the trained machine learning model shows good predictive performance, and 22 new acceptors with predicted PCE values greater than 17% within the virtual chemical space are screened out.
Further quantum chemistry calculations reveal that the end acceptor units mainly affect the frontier molecular orbital energy levels and the electrostatic potential on molecular surface, which in turn influence the performance of OPV devices.
A series of promising Y6 derivative candidates is screened out and a rational design guide for developing high‐performance OPV acceptors is provided.
The approach in this work can be extended to other material systems for rapid materials discovery and can provide a framework for designing novel and promising OPV materials.Twenty‐two new Y6 derivatives acceptor materials with the predicted power conversion efficiency higher than 17% are screened out by using machine learning.
Combing the trends discovered by machine learning and quantum chemistry calculations, it is further found out the ways in which side chains and end acceptor units affect the performance of OPV.
Organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells based on non‐fullerene acceptor materials have made great progress in recent years and are expected to achieve highly efficient power conversion as the form of renewable energy.
Since the star acceptor material Y6 was developed,[  1  ] the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPV has been improved continuously, and now it has exceeded 18%.
[  2 ,  3  ] However, the conventional procedure for experimenters to develop new acceptors is by synthesizing molecules with various possible structures and then test their photoelectric conversion performance, which is time and resource consuming.
[  14  ] used one‐hot encoding to convert OPV donor–acceptor pairs into input, and then they successfully obtained some high PCE donor–acceptor pairs by combing machine learning and experiments.
And the existing works are based on old databases which lack new Y6 series acceptors.
It is challenging to build the structure–performance relationship for Y6 series acceptors and discover new high‐efficiency Y6 derivative acceptors due to the small database available.
In this work, we established an OPV database with Y6 and its derivatives as acceptor materials.
The acceptor molecules were divided into three parts and encoded by an improved one‐hot code as input for machine learning.
Our machine learning model screened out 22 new high‐potential OPV acceptor materials with a predicted efficiency greater than 17%.
The screening results show that high‐performance OPV non‐fullerene derivatives of Y6 acceptors typically possess medium‐length side chains.
Further quantum chemistry calculations show that the end acceptor unit of molecules mainly modifies the frontier molecular orbital energy levels and the electrostatic potential (ESP) at the molecular surface, thereby leading to differences in photoelectric conversion performance.
At first, we collected the performance data of all organic solar cells employing Y6 and its derivatives as acceptor materials from literature.
To investigate the relationship between acceptor molecular structures and OPV devices performance, the donor materials were limited to PBDB‐T or PBDB‐TF (PM6).
The chemical structures of the acceptor materials along with their corresponding device PCE were then recorded to establish the original database.
[  12  ] Since all these acceptor molecules are symmetrical A‐D‐A‐D‐A type[  1  ] molecules, as shown in Figure 1b, we can split the molecules into three parts, i.e., the end acceptor unit (A1), the donor unit (D1), and the core acceptor unit (A2).
As shown in Table  1  and Table S1 (Supporting Information), unique bits are used to encode various fragments of the acceptor molecules.
The code of the acceptor materials is obtained by splicing the code of three units.
We use simple integers—0 and 1, to encode the two possible donor materials employed in this study.
Finally, the code of donor material and acceptor material are spliced to obtain an input for the machine learning model.
Fragments coding method of OPV acceptor materials
In order to traverse all possibilities, all A1‐D1‐A2 permutations of the molecule fragments in the original database were paired with both donor materials to generate a new virtual database.
This virtual database contains 1296 possible donor–acceptor combinations and the machine learning model trained above is used to predict the PCE value of their corresponding organic solar cells.
All the donor molecules are PM6 and the chemical structures of these 25 acceptor molecules are shown in Table S2 (Supporting Information).
Among these 25 acceptor molecules, there are only 3 molecules in the original database, the predicted PCE and experimental PCE of which show the same change trend.
The other 23 acceptor molecules are completely new and it turns out that these high‐performance acceptor molecules predicted by machine learning have similar structures and they only differ in side chains and the end acceptor units.
To further understand the impact of end acceptor unit, we selected 5 typical molecules denoted by Z1, Z2, Z3, Z4, and Z5, respectively.
The only difference between these molecules is the acceptor unit at the ends and the predicted PCE of Z1 and Z2 are higher than that of Z3, Z4 and Z5.
Five typical machine learning predicted high‐performance acceptor molecules with different acceptor units at the end groups (highlighted in red) and their predicted PCE.
The proper energy level alignment between the molecular orbitals of the donor and acceptor materials is very important in photoelectric conversion.
The differences in highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy levels and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels between donors and acceptors influence exciton dissociation.
[  18  ] Moreover, the difference between LUMO energy level of acceptor and HOMO energy level of donor is directly related to the open circuit voltage of the OPV device.
Combined with their predicted PCE values from the machine learning model, the frontier orbital energy levels of the Z1 and Z2 molecules seem to provide a better match with the PM6 donor material.
a) Frontier molecular orbital energy levels in comparison with the PM6 donor molecule.
However, considering that the absorption of the donor material and the acceptor material are complementary (shown in Figure S1, Supporting Information), the absorption in the short‐wave region has a limited impact on the overall photovoltaic performance.
In addition, the ESP difference between donor and acceptor molecules provides a driving force for exciton dissociation.
The ESP distribution on these five molecular surfaces is similar, with significant dissimilarities occurring near the end acceptor units.
It turns out that molecule Z1 and Z2 show more distribution in areas of high ESP than other molecules, which indicating that Z1 and Z2 can generate a stronger driving force for exciton dissociation when the acceptor interacts with the donor to form an intermolecular electric field.
The larger overall average ESP of Z1 and Z2 compared to the other molecules (shown in Figure 6d) furthermore agrees with the observation that molecules Z1 and Z2 possess a stronger ability for driving exciton dissociation while interacting with the donor material.
Since Z2 takes lager overall surface area than Z1, it shows greater possibilities to interact with the donor due to the larger area of positive ESP.
The machine learning model shows good predictive ability, and 22 new acceptor materials with predicted PCE higher than 17% were screened from the new virtual database.
The acceptor molecules predicted to have higher performance possess medium‐length side chains.
Quantum chemistry calculations on five high performance molecules with the same donor unit but with different acceptor units reveal that these molecules mainly show differences in frontier molecular orbital energy levels and the ESP distribution on the molecular surface.
Our work has screened out a series of OPV acceptor materials with high potential, and provided a rational design guide for the development of high‐performance OPV materials.
The desirable intramolecular and intermolecular interactions are achieved by altering the molecular system, resulting in the formation of various architectures ranging from small linear structures to dendritic or polymeric chains.26,46 For instance, the molecular packing and connectivity of HPB derivatives depend on the position of substitution and symmetry of the molecule.47 Furthermore, the introduction of electron donors and/or acceptors influences the photophysical properties, along with molecular packing and charge carrier properties.
Chen and co-workers51 reported the development of novel solution-processable blue light-emitting materials consisting of blue donor–acceptor (D–A) systems bearing PAB-attached arylamine derivatives (Fig.
To prevent exciplex formation, an additional layer possessing specific properties was inserted between the HTL (donor) and emissive layer (acceptor).
By the introduction of electron-donor and acceptor segments, it is possible to achieve a balanced charge transport with a broadened exciton region.
Very recently, Zhao and team118 reported new “aggregation-induced delayed fluorescence” (AIDF) fluorophores comprising of acridine and phenoxazine as the donors and triazine as the acceptor, along with CT process for non-doped OLEDs (Fig.
Very recently, another interesting report with a donor–acceptor system utilizing AIE and TADF phenomena, Wang et al.133 studied solution-processable OLEDs and reported the influence of AIE and thermally activated delayed fluorescence phenomena on the regulation of emission behavior.
In their work, circularly-arrayed dendrimers 71 and 72 containing electron donors (acridan) and acceptors (triazine) were designed, wherein each arm is closed around the central benzene to investigate ‘through space charge transfer’ (Fig.
Besides, two kinds of model dendrimers attached to only donors (73) and acceptors (74) were designed to explore the origin of CT emission.
The interfacial layers in the OSCs possess multiple functions in the devices.136 In general, a donor and acceptor with elevated charge carrier mobilities, and small energy offsets are required to develop proficient photovoltaics with low voltage compensations.
Though fullerene derivatives are leading acceptors, they possess several limitations such as the limited tunability of energy levels and structure, high manufacturing cost, and narrow spectral absorption that restrict their practical application.140 To overcome these drawbacks, non-fullerene acceptors were introduced to replace the fullerene derivatives.
The application of non-fullerene HAB-PDI materials in organic photovoltaics was pioneered by Liu and co-workers.140 The novel bulk-heterojunction D–A system achieved from utilizing poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4-b]thiophene)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl]141 (PTB7-Th) as the electron donor material and star-shaped HAB-appended PDI units as the electron acceptor for OSCs.
The suitable energy levels and absorption spectrum of PTB7-Th suggest that the molecule is a donor while 77 is an acceptor.
Recently, another flower-shaped non-fullerene based acceptor was synthesized by Zhang and coworkers28 from a PDI-HAB core tailored ethynyl bridge.
The polymer poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)-thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))] (PBDB-T) was chosen as the electron donor to fabricate the solar cell due to its suitable HOMO–LUMO energy levels and complementary absorption to 78.
To evaluate the electronic properties of the 78 acceptor, the photovoltaic device was fabricated with the following architecture of ITO/ZnO/(PBDB-T:78) blend/MoO3/Ag.
Though many organic molecules have been used for OMDs, the report by Ming,21 explains the application of ruthenium(ii) complexes which employed in donor–π–acceptor–π–donor (DπAπD) type molecular system.
Herein, bipyridine appended triarylamine ligand connected to polyphenylene moiety, where polyphenylene moiety is equipped as an electron donor and central Ru-biphenyl segment served as acceptor.
This memory characteristic is attributed to the electron denser electron-donor portion is completely transferred to the electron-acceptor portion under an electric field, which is results to produce a constant charge-separated state.
Due to their extended conjugation and electron-donating ability, HABs can be engineered with appropriate acceptor moieties to yield push–pull systems.
In this regard, we have designed a covalently linked donor–acceptor dyad comprising a fluorobenzothiadiazole-thiophene (BTF2-Th) unit with the electron acceptor fullerene in an Acceptor–Donor–Acceptor (A–D–A) molecular arrangement.
Such structural arrangement provides easy charge transfer between acceptor and donor units to allow a concomitant effect of favorable optoelectronic properties, energy levels of the frontier orbitals, effective exciton dissociation, and charge transport which may reduce processing complexity to advance single material-based future optoelectronic devices.Covalently-bonded acceptor and donor units: Tuning the properties of benzothiadiazole-based fullerene molecules via different chemistries.
One approach to improve PCE involves optimization of the energy gap between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor to allow maximum energy conversion and to affect open-circuit voltage (Voc).
The second approach demands the exploration of strategies to maximize the intermolecular interactions between the donor and acceptor units.1c,2
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) photovoltaic devices revealed high PCE and are vastly based on the blending of a semiconducting polymer/organic small molecule donor with a soluble fullerene derivative as an acceptor, to improve the charge-carrier mobility and exciton separation.3 The fullerene derivatives constitute so far as one of the most explored class of acceptors for BHJ.
Such acceptors have vastly improved the device efficacy due to their advantageous properties such as (i) the strong electron affinity to accept and transport electrons in three dimensions, (ii) high electron mobilities, (iii) multiple reversible electrochemical reductions, and (iv) the ability to aggregate in bulk heterojunctions to form both pure and mixed domains of the appropriate length scale to enable charge separation.4 Among the fullerene derivatives, [6]-phenyl-C61 butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) acceptor is widely used due to its good solubility, well structurally characterized, further structurally tailored and revealed appreciable compatibility with many conjugated donors.5 Padinger et al.6 reported BHJ device based on a blend of poly(3-hexylthiophene) donor and PC61BM, P3HT:PC61BM, with a PCE of >3.5%, and it has been used as the reference cell in this field.1c,3b,7 Fullerene derivatives have been widely used in optoelectronic device applications.
reported D–A–D type molecules with PCBM as acceptor material for bulk heterojunction-based optoelectronic devices.8 Anthopoulos and others demonstrated PC61BM based ultraviolet phototransistors with balanced electron and hole transport characteristics.9 Field-effect transistors were also reported by Dong et al.
Higher fullerene analogues, like PC71BM, have also been studied extensively as acceptors in OSCs, and recently, Hu and co-workers reported a record 15.3% PCE for a PC71BM based-all small molecule OSCs.12 Functionalization of fullerene raises the LUMO level13 and thus reduces electrochemical losses and simultaneous increase in Voc.14 Multi-adducts of fullerene, more specifically, the bis-adducts have shown better performance than their mono-adducts.15 In general, the higher-adducts than bis-adducts of fullerene show a lower light-harvesting to power conversion performance due to decrease in electron mobility, the occurrence of electronic traps, and a minimal effect on LUMO level.15b,16 Recently multiple functionalized fullerene adducts gained interest for advanced materials and biological applications and thus interesting for exploration.17
Another electron-deficient unit of growing interest is 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT), which exhibits low-lying energy levels that make it an important acceptor building block in materials design to modulate electron transport properties.18 An ease to introduce various functionalities in the benzothiadiazole unit offers rich structural designing flexibility to tune the molecule properties.
Moreover, fluorine functionality improves interactions between the donor and acceptor units, thereby enhancing the diffusive properties of the compound.20 Another way of altering electronic properties of BT derivative is through the fusion of the benzothiadiazole unit with widely explored donor units, like thiophene, which has been reported to generate structures with enhanced light-harvesting efficiency.21 Molecules involving fluorobenzothiadiazole (BTF2) and thiophene (Th) have been studied and the proximity of the two moieties allows tunability of electronic properties.
Use of variation in the arrangement of the acceptor (A)–donor (D) units became popular in light-harvesting materials as they allow better intramolecular charge transfer from the acceptor to the donor units, leading to improved performance of the device.24 Alternating arrangement of units as A–D–A was first introduced by Schulze et al.25 and found that the acceptor/donor interface assists the separation of excitons as electrons in the acceptor and holes in the donor.
More recently, Chen et al.26 reported that A–D–A type acceptors exhibit outstanding performance with a PCE of 17.3% in tandem geometry.
Such structural arrangements of the acceptor/donor units result in enhanced charge transfer with a simultaneous broadening of the optical absorption range.27
In the current work, we aim to modify the PC61BM acceptor molecule with a covalently linked BTF2-Th unit to obtain an A–D–A type arrangement.
Three aspects are considered in the tuning of the acceptor molecule: (i) lowering of bandgap, (ii) efficient inter- and intra-molecular electron transport (iii) to improve optical absorptivity of fullerenes.
As a design strategy to attain the former objective, fluorine atoms are incorporated in the acceptor molecule while for the latter objective, benzothiadiazole moiety was covalently tethered to PC61BM to allow directionality for efficient electron transport and improve light absorbance characteristics.
The thiophene π-bridge (D1, Th) linked difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (A1, BTF2) unit is anchored to the fullerene (A2) moiety via a phenyl linker (D2) to design acceptor molecules in D1–A1–D2–A2 configuration.
The fullerene moiety was introduced using PC61BM as it is among the most widely used electron acceptor in BHJ devices and offers good solvent solubility and electronic properties.28 The terminal thiophene donor (D1) unit contained a C6-long alkyl chain which not only assists solvent processability of the final molecule but is also known to affect inter- and intramolecular interactions.23a The structural arrangement of the two-hybrid π-bridge units sandwiching A1 unit may favor structural planarity to affect molecular interactions.
The mono- and multi-adduct acceptors (7: PC61BTF2, 10-I: PC61BM-BTF2 and 10-D: PC61BM-nBTF2).
The absorption observed at 420 nm in the spectrum of 6 corresponds to the characteristic intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) transition between electron acceptor (benzothiadiazole moiety) and electron donor (aromatic group) units in 6.38,39 The existence of ICT transition is also present in PC61BTF27, along with an additional absorption observed in the 375 to 480 nm region due to the fullerene ring.
The frontier orbital values provided in Table 1 suggest that 7, 10-I and 10-D can be used in conjunction with BHJ donors in cases that offer preferred level alignment.
Herein, we design and characterize 9-heterocyclic ring non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) with the extended backbone of indacenodithiophene by cyclopenta [2,1-b:3,4-b’] dithiophene (CPDT).
The planar conjugated CPDT donor enhances absorption by reducing vibronic transition and charge transport.
Because of the electronegative nature of the end-group, the corresponding acceptors showed deeper LUMO energy levels and red-shifted ultraviolet absorption.
A typical bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cell is a combination of acceptor and donor materials.
In the early stage of organic solar cells, fullerene derivatives were used as acceptors, owing to their excellent electron and affinity mobility and appropriate nanoscale morphology.
[9,10,11,12,13,14] Benefits from the development of device optimization and donor materials [15,16,17,18,19,20], fullerene-based OSCs have exceeded 10% power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) [21,22].
To overcome the limitations of fullerene derivatives, ITIC non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) and their derivatives with acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) architecture have drawn particular interest owing to broad light absorption, regulable energy levels, stable morphological, and low-cost synthesis potential [26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33].
With the boost of ITIC non-fullerene acceptor, the PCEs of organic solar cells have reached 13–15% [46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53].
In this paper, we utilize extended conjugation: the conjugation of indacenodithiophene is extended by substituting the outward thienothiophene moieties with cyclopenta [2,1-b:3,4-b’] dithiophene (CPDT), which enables construction 9-heterocyclic ring acceptor, meta-methyl-ITIC (m-Me-ITIC).
Blend with PBDB-T polymer donor, the m-Me-ITIC device delivers an open-circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.78 V, and short-circuit current density (Jsc) of 23.7 mA·cm–2, fill factor (FF) of 64%, and PCE of 11.8%.
m-Me-ITIC acceptors were obtained as blue solid.
Each of the new acceptors was characterized by NMR, and mass spectrometry (Figures S1–S6 in Supporting Information).
The resulting acceptors showed good solubility at room temperature in common solvent.
Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was carried out to investigate the thermal stability of the m-Me-ITIC acceptors (Figures S7 and S8 in Supporting Information).
All four acceptors have decomposition temperatures (Td) > 330 °C (5% weight loss), indicating m-Me-ITIC series have good thermal stability.
Furthermore, measurement of ultraviolet–visible spectra in solution revealed that λmax exhibited greater red-shifts with increasing electron acceptor ability: m-Me-ITIC-Me (λmax: 756 nm) < m-ITIC (760 nm) < m-ITIC-F (775 nm) < m-ITIC-Cl (790 nm).
In thin film, a broader spectrum and redshifted maximum absorption were observed for m-Me-ITIC acceptors; the absorption maximum of m-Me-ITIC-Cl was shifted by nearly 16 nm compared with m-Me-ITIC-F, suggesting that stronger π–π interactions occur in thin film.
To demonstrate the photovoltaic performances of m-Me-ITIC acceptors, we fabricated organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices by blending m-Me-ITIC acceptors with PBDB-T polymer donor using an inverted structure with glass/tin-doped indium oxide/ZnO/BHJ/MoOx/Ag.
Current density–voltage (J–V) characteristics of the optimized devices with the m-Me-ITIC acceptors was measured under simulated AM1.5 G with an intensity of 100 mW/cm2, the results are shown in Figure 2a and the device data are summarized in Table 2.
We summarize the device optimization data (e.g., thermal annealing, donor/acceptor blending ratio, and processing additive of each OPV device) (Tables S1–S6 in Supporting Information).
Favorable phase separation between donor and acceptor in m-Me-ITIC-F blend and m-Me-ITIC-Cl blend may have produced a slightly rougher surface, increasing the efficiency of these OPV cells [57,58].
Figure 4a shows the X-ray diffraction patterns of neat acceptor films.
When the novel NFAs were mixed with the donor to produce blended BHJ films, the crystallinity of the PBDB-T:m-Me-ITIC-Me film almost disappeared compared to pristine m-Me-ITIC-Me.
We designed and synthesized a 9-heterocyclic ring acceptor, m-Me-ITIC, with different end groups by substituting the outward thienothiophene moieties with CPDT at indacenodithiophene.
The developed m-Me-ITIC, m-Me-ITIC-Me, m-Me-ITIC-F, and m-Me-ITIC-Cl showed long-wavelength absorption at approximately 756–790 nm in solution because of the symmetric, planar, and extended conjugated CPDT donor.
The m-Me-ITIC-based acceptors were developed into polymer solar cells that contained benzodithiophene-based donor polymers.
Recently, a study has been reported to improve the stability through a ternary system by adding 4,4′-Biphenol (BPO) to a polymer:acceptor bulk hetrojunction [19] and an alloy system utilizing two acceptors [20].
The bulk heterojunction BHJ is a very simple configuration of OSC in which a π-conjugated donor material is blended with an electron acceptor (very often a fullerene derivative) to yield the active layer sandwiched between the electrodes [14,15].
To gain good solar cell efficiencies, the electron donor material should possess some characteristics: an extended light absorption matching, as much as possible, the solar spectrum for effective harvesting of the solar photons; high extinction coefficient; HOMO and LUMO energy levels, correctly aligned with those of the acceptor; good hole and exciton transport properties; thermal and chemical stability.
So that an ideal donor material blended with PCBM in a BHJ should have a low band gap (between 1.2 and 1.9 eV), with the HOMO energy level in the range −5.2/−5.8 eV and the LUMO energy level in the range −3.8/−4.0, to ensure efficient charge separation and high Voc [18].
Polyarylenevinylenes are a class of materials with low band gap, potentially suitable as donor system in BHJ [19,20].
Following our first results on synthetic methods aimed to prepare arylenevinylene oligomers and polymers with fluorinated double bond [21,22,23,24,25], and on investigations of the effect of fluorination on their chemico-physical properties [26,27,28,29,30], we became interested in studying the impact of the fluorinated vinylene units on the photovoltaic performance of a polyarylenevinylene as donors for BHJ solar cells [31].
About the fluoro-functionalization, some papers demonstrated favourable effects of fluorine substitution on the performance of polymers used as donors in blend with PCBM derivatives in BHJ solar cells [44,45,46,47].
Fluorine as a substituent of conjugated materials is appropriate for lowering both the HOMO and LUMO energy levels; this can cause an increase of the open circuit voltage, Voc, in a donor material for BHJ.
Polymers PDTBTFV and PDTBTV were used as donor materials blended with PCBM in BHJ solar cells and the photovoltaic performance were recorded on non-optimized devices [31].
Different donor/acceptor (polymer/PCBM) weight ratios were tested and the results of cell performance are reported in Table 1.
Cell performance data shows the superiority of the fluorinated polymer PDTBTFV as a donor over the non-fluorinated PDTBTV, with higher values of Voc, FF and then η.
The best performing organic dyes have a donor-π-bridge-acceptor (D-π-A) structural architecture, where A is mainly the cyanoacrylic group [66,67,68,69,70,71], while D and π are the units on which most of the efforts have been focused, in order to gain improvements of photovoltaic performances.
As donor systems, the aryl amines resulted to be the best performing, and the research efforts have been devoted to the strengthening of the electron-donating power and to the introduction of bulky chains preventing the aggregation and recombination processes on the TiO2.
However, the π-bridge, linking the donor and acceptor units, plays a crucial role in the whole performance of the organic dye, by adjusting the HOMO and LUMO energy levels and extending the absorption range [60].
Moreover, since the π-bridge has to favour the electron migration from the donor to the acceptor, a planar geometry (fused rings) should be preferred.
We selected the cyanoacrylic group as the acceptor unit A, which was linked to the BTBT unit by the 3-methylthiophene ring (see Figure 4 for the units to connect for the synthesis of organic dyes).
As donor D we selected three electron-donor groups, characterized by a different donating power and long alkyl chains (octyl chains) to prevent aggregation processes [82].
The synthetic strategy carried out to prepare the three intermediates containing the donor unit D1, D2 and D3 is shown in Scheme 4.
As evident, the introduction of stronger electron-donor arylamine units in ODy2 and ODy3, with respect to the bis-fluorenylthiophene donor in ODy1, strongly impacts the absorption capability of the dyes with a strong enhancement of the extinction coefficient.
Moreover, the introduction of a more complex donor system, based on the phenothiazine unit in ODy3, further increases the absorption capability of the related dye, beside a blue shift of the absorption spectrum.
In addition, the introduction of coadsorbents such as CDAC allows for a more uniform coverage of the inorganic semiconductor surface, hence lowering the probability of recombination processes between electrons injected and I3− or other acceptor species.
In the framework of our interest in organic small molecules for DSSC solar cells, especially for new π-bridges in D-π-A structures, we devoted our attention on the dibenzofulvene (DBF) system, having a planar configuration and whose chemical structure allows to connect two donor units per DBF molecule in a new structure of 2D-π-A type.
In such a dye structure, two electron-donating units can push electrons to the electron-acceptor anchoring group.
By exploiting the electron delocalization along the ylidene system, the electron-donating effect of donor groups linked to the DBF skeleton can be directed to the acceptor group, thus allowing the electron injection into the TiO2 component of the cell.
The position of donor groups onto the DBF skeleton, as well as their electron donating power can be exploited as chemical tools to tune the electronic properties of the organic dyes, and at the whole, their performance in cell.
We selected diarylamines as donor groups, the cyanoacrylic acid as the acceptor group and the π-bridges consisting of DBF alone or DBF connected to thiophene or bithiophene systems [75,103,104,105].
In view of design and synthesis of DBF-based organic dyes with structure 2D-π-A for DSSC, the DBF molecule is a versatile chemical structure which can be easy functionalized in the 2,7- and 3,6-positions by electron-donor groups.
This allows for the design of two different classes of dyes, with different structural and chemico-physical behaviour, in which a different electronic conjugation is expected between the donor and the acceptor units, the last being connected to the donor by the ylidene system and the π-spacer of the π-bridge.
In line with these assessments, we studied the effects of donor position on DBF-based organic dyes for DSSC [105], starting our investigation from structurally simply dyes, shown in Figure 7.
TG1 and TG2 are two basic structures without donor groups on the DBF unit, and containing one or two thiophene rings, respectively, as spacer between the ylidene system and the cyanoacrylic acceptor unit.
TG3 and TG4 can be considered as deriving from TG1 and TG2, respectively, with the introduction of the diphenylamine donor unit in the 2,7-positions of the DBF structure.
TK2 and TK3, instead, can be considered as deriving from TG1 and TG2, respectively, with the introduction of diphenylamine donor unit in the 3,6-positions of DBF structure.
From the analysis of absorption features (absorption spectra in solvent with different polarity, such as DMSO and chlorobenzene, were also recorded), some interesting behaviours can be observed, strictly depending on the position of the donor groups on the DBF structure.
These optical features are a proof of a better coupling between diphenylamines and DBF core for 3,6-functionalized dyes with respect to 2,7-functionalized ones, so that the electron donating capacity of donors is enhanced as well as the electron delocalization in TK2 and TK3 with respect to TG3 and TG4.
TG1 and TG2 show very poor efficiencies (1.23% and 2.07%, respectively), as expected, due to the lack of donor groups.
TG3 and TG4 show enhanced efficiencies, with values of 3.91% and 2.68%, respectively, thanks to the introduction of donor groups in 2,7-positions.
On the other hand, TK2 and TK3 with donor groups in 3,6-positions are the dyes showing the higher efficiencies, with values of 5.01% and 5.42%, respectively.
In order to pull out the best photovoltaic potential from this class of DBF-based dyes, our investigation continued focusing the attention on three structures, labelled as TK1, TK2 and TK3, characterized by diphenylamine donor groups linked to the 3,6-positions of DBF core and different for the number of thiophene rings between the DBF and the electron-acceptor group (cyanoacrylic): no thiophene ring in TK1, one thiophene ring in TK2 and two thiophene rings in TK3.
The introduction of one thiophene ring as a spacer between the DBF structure and the cyanoacrylic acceptor unit yields the dye TK2, which shows a bathochromic shift of 73 nm of the absorption maximum and an increase in the molar extinction coefficient (ε = 1.2 × 10⁴).
Continuing further with our interest in deepening the knowledge of the correlation between structure and chemico-physical properties, aimed to improving the photovoltaic performance of DBF-based dyes, we focused our attention on the enhancement of the electron donor power of the diphenylamine units used as donor systems and on the modulation of the π-bridge of the 2D-π-A structure.
For this purpose, we synthesized the dyes TK4, TK5 and TK6, which can be considered as deriving from the best performing dyes TK2 and TK3, by introduction of para-alkoxy substituted diphenylamines as donor units.
TK5, which differs from TK4 only for the presence of two thiophene rings, instead of one, between the DBF core and the acceptor unit, shows two maxima peaks at 413 and 513 nm, with extinction coefficients ε = 24,800 and 17,800, respectively.
The results highlight as a simple structural variation consisting in the introduction of alkoxy groups onto the donor units, providing a fine synthetic tool to modulate photovoltaic parameters and enhance the efficienciy of device.
During our ongoing investigations, we finally became interested in studying the effects of a combined functionalization by alkoxy groups onto the donor units and alkyl chains onto the π-bridge, on the optical and photovoltaic properties of DBF-based organic dyes for DSSC.
In detail, we focused our attention on the dye TK3, one of the best performing in terms of photovoltaic efficiency, using it as starting molecular structure to get new derivatives by functionalization with methoxy or octyloxy groups of the diphenylamine donor units, and with n-hexyl chains of one of the two thienyl rings connecting the DBF core to the acceptor unit.
Three new dyes were then obtained, TK7, TK8 and TK9, where TK7 can be considered as deriving from TK3 by a simple introduction of a n-hexyl chain on the thienyl ring closer the acceptor unit, TK8 as a further evolution of TK7 by the introduction of methoxy chains in the para position of diphenylamines, and TK9 as a further evolution of TK7 by the introduction of octyloxy chains in the para positions of diphenylamines.
The dyes show two bands, one at longer wavelengths, in the range 360–600 nm, which is mainly attributed to the charge transfer (CT) from diarylamine donors to cyanoacrylic acid acceptor, and the other in the region 270–350 nm, originating from DBF and thiophene units, which can be attributed to π−π* transitions.
In the comparison between dyes, results show that the alkoxy groups (in TK8 and TK9) on the diphenylamine donor units negatively impact photovoltaic performance, suggesting that in such a branched dye structure, although they space the molecules preventing undesirable dye aggregation, on the other side they can lead to a less-uniform coverage of the TiO2 surface.
has recently reported that the crystallinity at the donor/acceptor interface affects VOC, demonstrating a shift by about 0.25 V upon changing the length of alkyl substituents on perylene diimide, a typical n-type material employed in OPVs.10 In another example, Ran et al.
Therefore, the enlargement in the optical bandgap is caused by the presence of excess donor electrons, which is caused by alkali metals situated at interstitial sites in the ZnO matrix [55].
The dopant-free polymers, often made of alternated donor and acceptor cores, have properties, namely the filming ability, the molecular weight tunability, the stacking and packing peculiarities, and high hole mobility in absence of any dopant, that make them very attractive and a real innovation in the field.
This means that not only the difference in acceptor/donor character of the moieties is important, but also the contact distance among chains, to help the charge to flow at high rate [29].
We also tried to discuss the polymers by looking at the donor and acceptor moieties and tried to find, if any, some structure–activity relationships or at least some indication about the effect that every moiety can give to the final HTM.
This is essential to evidence the most promising donor and acceptor moieties and to guide chemists to prepare novel generations of polymeric HTMs aiming at high photovoltaic efficiency.
The main concept to build a dopant-free HTM is to assemble moieties with different (acceptor/donor) characters from each other so that the final structure is highly polarized and can, in principle, receive electrons on one side and release them on the other side.
Several organic groups were built to play the role of donors and acceptors and their combinations are almost infinite.
Polymers used as HTMs can be classified as homopolymers, copolymers and D-A (donor–acceptor) copolymers.
This remarked the importance of the alkoxy oxygen as a donor group on the DPA structure.
The polymer PCDTBT (see below the Section 3.3.2., related to benzothiadiazole) is an analog of PCBTDPP in which the acceptor DPP was substituted by a benzothiadiazole (BTZ) [98].
The benzodithiophene core (BDT) is an inherent electron donor group.
We will analyze several HTMs structures bearing this group since it was one of the most promising donors used in dopant-free polymers [115,116].
It showed a deeper HOMO, as a cause of the strong acceptor character of BTZ.
who produced a random copolymer (RCP) by assembling a donor BDT monomer with two acceptor BTZ-based monomers (that here, for homology, will define with the acronyms: M-R and M-OR) [126].
The number of fluorine atoms added to the BTZ counterparts increases the acceptor properties of the monomer, enhancing the difference with the BDT monomer and this was fruitful for the photovoltaic properties.
Further modifications in the polymeric skeleton were recently exploited by using different acceptor groups other than BTZ.
coupling a donor unit (based on benzodithiophene, BDT) with an acceptor building block (composed by thieno[3,2-b]thiophene and 4H-thieno[3,4-c]pyrrole-4,6(5H)-dione) [131].
A few different acceptor groups were coupled with BDT, the pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole-1,3-dione (DPPD) and the 4H,8H-benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD).
In R1, the donor portion in both monomers was the 4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDTT), which was coupled either with pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole-1,3-dione (DPPD) and [3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophene] (TT) as the two acceptor units.
This really elegant screening clarified that sometimes it is not mandatory to build an HTM by coupling “very strong” complex donor and acceptor monomers, but simpler structures can give excellent results and can greatly simplify the access to highly performant HTMs, reducing the cost and improve the sustainability of the material.
Often, the carbazole (Cbz) was used as a donor [146,147] and the benzothiadiazole (BTZ) was used as an acceptor in solar cells [11,148,149].
This comes out from a series of improvements, such as the combination of donors and acceptors, modification of BDT with alkoxy chains or alkyl thienyl moieties, insertion on the BTZ residue of the triethylene glycol chains as passivator for Pb2+ surface traps.
The BTZ acceptor was thus tuned in its acceptor strength due to the alkoxy/TEG chains and this contributed to the optimization of the photovoltaic performances.
The IDT or IDTT are playing the donor role while BDD is the acceptor.
They were classified as homopolymers and donor–acceptor copolymers.
As a matter of fact, the continuous alternation of donor and acceptor moieties is one of the most important characteristics to achieve high performances along with a fully conjugated skeleton, in which the hole transfer is promoted.
The polymers were studied from their structural point of view, classifying them based on the few largely occurring different donors or acceptor groups, such as diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP), benzodithiophene (BDT), Benzothiadiazole (BTZ), Carbazole (Cbz).
The same concept applies in the case of the BDT donor core in which very simple thiophene was used as a spacer among BDT groups, showing that it was sufficient to increase the planarity of the polymer and to improve packing and close contact, to achieve outstanding performances (19.6% for P2-T and 20.3% for P3-T-F).
Very remarkably, most of the complex acceptor groups coupled with BDT did not achieve the results obtained by using a simple thiophene spacer.
Scientists are focusing on non-fullerene based acceptors due to their efficient photovoltaic properties.
Here, we have designed four novel dithienonaphthalene based acceptors with better photovoltaic properties through structural modification of a well-known experimentally synthesized reference compound R. The newly designed molecules have a dithienonaphthalene core attached with different acceptors (end-capped).
The acceptor moieties are 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (H1), 2-(5,6-dicyano-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (H2), 2-(5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydrocylopenta[c]thiophe-4-ylidene)-malononitrile (H3) and 2-(3-(dicyanomethylene)-2,3-dihydroinden-1-yliden)malononitrile (H4).
Charger transfer from donor to acceptor is confirmed by a frontier molecular orbital (FMO) diagram.
All studied molecules show extensive absorption in the visible region and absorption maxima are red-shifted compared to R. All investigated molecules have lower excitation energies which reveal high charge transfer rates, as compared to R. To evaluate the open circuit voltage, the designed acceptor molecules are blended with a well-known donor PBDB-T.
TDM has been performed to show the behaviour of electronic excitation processes and electron hole location between the donor and acceptor unit.
Our designed molecules have same donor unit with different end-capped acceptor units.
Organic solar cells offer certain advantages such as tuneable energy levels, intensive absorption, low cost, mechanical flexibility, high reproducibility and easy processability.7–14 Organic solar cells (OSCs) contain electron donor and electron acceptors where photoexcited electron from donor shifts towards electron acceptor.13,15 From the last two decades, fullerene based acceptors have been routinely used due to high charge mobility, high photo-induce electron and isotropic charge transfer.16–18 Although fullerene based acceptor have encouraging results, but it is tough to improve the PCE because of limited absorption of fullerene in visible region and less tuneability of energy levels.19,20 Recently, many non-fullerene based acceptor have been explored21–24 for their use in efficient photovoltaic materials.25–38 The acceptor molecules are rationally designed to meet the practical requirements.
Among different design strategies, A–D–A (acceptor–donor–acceptor) design principle has gained much more attention.
The A–D–A type acceptor molecules have tune-able energy levels, broader absorption in visible region and ease in fabrication.39–43 For A–D–A strategy, the ladder type fused ring donor unit should be used in order to prevent the rotation and help in co-planarity which lowers the reorganization energy and thereby increase the charge transfer ability.44–46 Furthermore, sp3 hybridized methyl group on donor unit help in easy processability to avoid self-aggregation in blended form.
Based on above strategy Zhan et al., reported A–D–A based non-fullerene acceptor, 3,9-bis-2-methylene-(3-1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2,3-d]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b]dithiophene (ITIC), in which indacenodithienothiophene (IDTT) is used as a ladder type donor material.24 Here, we have designed four new A–D–A type acceptor molecules (H1–H4) based on IDTT donor for better performance in photovoltaic cells.
Our designed molecules contain dithienonaphthalene with methyl group as donor moiety with different end capped acceptor units.
The focus of this study is to design new A–D–A type acceptor molecules based on dithienonaphthalene donor unit for better performance in OSCs.
The end-capped acceptors are 2-(5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)malononitrile (H1), 2-(5,6-dicyano-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile (H2), 2-(5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-(dihydrocylopenta[c]thiophe-4-ylidene)malononitrile (H3) and 2-(3-(dicyanomethylene)-2,3-dihydroinden-1-yliden)malononitrile (H4).
From the optimized geometries, it is apparent that the acceptor and the dithienonaphthalene donor unit are in one plane (see side view in Fig.
Two methyl groups on donor part helps to avoid self-aggregation.
The stabilized HOMO and LUMO in H2 are due to strong electron withdrawing effect of the acceptor moiety namely 5,6-dicyano-2-methylene-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-yliden-malononitrile.
The HOMO and LUMO energies of H4 are lower than those of R, H1 and H3, which illustrates the strong electron withdrawing effect of acceptor in H4.
Among all designed molecules, H3 shows high energies of HOMO and LUMO values but these values are still lower than HOMO and LUMO values of R, which reveal that the acceptor in H3 has strong electron withdrawing effect than that of the reference R.
4 that the end-capped acceptor unit in the designed molecules effect the distribution pattern around HOMO and LUMO.
In case of R, the HOMO is primarily distributed on donor unit while LUMO is spread on the entire molecule.
A similar type of pattern is observed for H1 and H2, where the HOMO is spread on donor core unit with small densities on the acceptor moieties whereas the LUMO is populated mostly on end capped acceptor groups with small densities present on the central donor group.
For H3, the distribution of density in HOMO is comparable to those of H1 and H2 (distributed on the donor part).
Finally the HOMO of H4 is strongly distributed on donor unit without acceptor moiety, while LUMO is strongly available on acceptor unit with less spread on donor core unit.
It is clearly seen that the strong electron withdrawing acceptor moieties particularly in H4 cause significant red shift in the absorption spectra.
The red shifts in the absorption maxima of the designed molecules are attributed to extended conjugation between donor and end-capped acceptor groups.
The incorporation of electron withdrawing group with the donor moiety in designed molecules causes lowering of excitation energies.
The lowest excitation energy is calculated for H4 which is attributed to extended conjugation between donor and acceptor units, which leads to enhanced charge mobility.
Cationic geometry describes with the mobility of cation while anionic geometry deals with the mobility of electron from donor material.
If both geometries are different then the molecule has to wait until vibrations bring the acceptor into a shape that is more similar to the donor.
The lower value of λe for H2 and H3 means high charge transfer rate from donor to acceptor unit.
Among all, the lowest value of H2 is due to extending conjugation in acceptor unit.
The λh value of all investigated acceptors are in the order of H4 > H1 > H2 > R > H3.
The Voc is approximately equal to the difference of LUMO (acceptor) and HOMO (donor) moiety.
The value of Voc is calculated with the aid of Scharber equation,63 as eqn (III).IIIVoc = (EHOMO (PBDB-T) − ELUMO (acceptor)) − 0.3
In above equation 0.3 is the empirical factor for efficient charge separation.64 To obtain the high value of Voc the HOMO of donor unit should be low in energy while LUMO of acceptor unit should have high energy.
In the current study, we designed non-fullerene based acceptor so we blended our molecules with well-known PBDB-T donor.
The open circuit voltages (Voc) of reference R and H1–H4 with respect to donor material PBDB-T donor.
The TDM illustrates the localization of electron and hole in the excited state, electronic excitation and also helps to understand the effect of acceptor and donor in the excited state.
To evaluate the TDM, we divided our designed molecules into two parts one is donor denoted as D and other is end-capped acceptor moiety which is denoted as A. TDM results are shown in Fig.
The designed and reference molecules show similar behaviour; the electron consistency is diagonal to donor, and on acceptor group.
The electron coherence is available on donor as well as on acceptor unit.
From TDM diagram, is it confirmed that the electron is transferred from donor part to acceptor unit.
Additionally, the coherence interaction between donor to acceptor unit in excited state is in the decreasing order of R = H4 > H1 > H2 > H3.
To evaluate the nature of transition, we made a complex between a designed molecules (H2) and PBDB-T donor.
The literature reveals that the dipole moment from donor to acceptor is responsible for charge transfer.70–73 The side view of optimized geometry of complex in shown in Fig.
Optimized geometry acceptor H2 and PBDB-T donor unit.
The dipole moment μ of H2/PBDB-T arises due to permanent dipole from donor to acceptor unit.
To further check the nature of charge transfer (electronic properties) and distribution pattern from donor to acceptor unit, the FMOs analyses has been performed with selected functional and results are illustrated in Fig.
11 that the charge density is shifted from donor to acceptor unit which is in great agreement to show the nature of charges.
In the complex, the HOMO is mainly distributed on donor unit (PBDB-T) while LUMO is spread on acceptor moiety.
In this study, we have designed four novel dithienonaphthalene based acceptor molecules (H1–H4) with different acceptor moieties to promote the opto-electronic properties of OSCs.
By increasing extending conjugation in acceptor unit with central donor skeleton enhances, opto-electronic properties of OSCs are enhanced.
All designed molecules have reduced HOMO–LUMO energy gap however, the molecule H4 has the lowest HOMO–LUMO energy gap which is attributed to extended conjugation in acceptor moiety.
For Voc, the designed molecules are scaled up with donor PBDB-T.
To show the nature of charge transfer from donor to acceptor, the designed molecule H2 is blended with PBDB-T donor group.
Meanwhile, SnF2 also complicates this by accepting a lone pair from donors, such as triethylamine, 2,2-bipyridine, and 1,10-phenanthroline, including N atoms.
The basic structure of a BHJ OSC consists of an active layer composed of two types of blended organic semiconductor materials, a donor and an acceptor [12].
The photogeneration of excitons can occur in both the materials, but when excitons reach a donor-acceptor interface (D-A), the charge transfer (CT) excitons are formed such that the donor donates electrons and accepts holes whereas the acceptor donates holes and accepts electrons [13].
Therefore, donor materials should be efficient hole acceptors and acceptor materials should be efficient electron acceptors [14].
As organic semiconductors have a low dielectric constant, about 3–4 [16,17,18,19], the electron and hole pairs excited by the absorption of photons by the donor and acceptor in the active layer form Frenkel excitons instantly, which need to be dissociated efficiently into free electrons and holes for the operation of OSCs.
The dissociation of Frenkel excitons occurs at a D-A interface, which is usually not far away in a blended donor-acceptor active layer.
When a Frenkel exciton excited in the donor reaches a D-A interface, the electron gets transferred from the donor’s lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) to the acceptor’s LUMO, being at a lower energy, and thus forms a CT exciton [20,21] by releasing the excess energy in the form of molecular vibrations.
Likewise, when a Frenkel exciton excited in the acceptor reaches a D-A interface, the hole gets transferred from acceptor highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) to donor HOMO, being at a lower energy, and forms a CT exciton in the form of molecular vibrations [13].
BHJ OSCs with an active layer based on fullerene acceptor have currently dominated the research activities in organic photovoltaic [23] because of their excellent charge transport properties [24].
[25] applied the optical transfer matrix method (OTMM) to profile the exciton generation rate as a function of the thickness of the active layer for the fullerene acceptor (PCBM) based BHJ OSC in conventional as well inverted configurations.
However, fullerene acceptor materials have some disadvantages which include limited chemical and energetic tunability, narrow range of absorption spectra, and unstable morphology, thereby limiting the overall PCE and stability of the device thus fabricated [26,27].
Therefore, the research focus has moved to the use of non-fullerene (NF) acceptors [28,29,30,31] in BHJ OSCs.
[6] fabricated a NF acceptor based BHJ OSC with a PCE of 18.22%, which is the highest to date for a single junction BHJ OSC device.
This is achieved because of the easy tunability of bandgap energy of the NF acceptor materials and the low binding energy of the CT excitons which reduces the energy loss at the CT state to dissociate the excitons into free charge carriers [33].
To the best of the authors’ knowledge, little theoretical work has been done in understanding the characteristics of exciton generation in conventional and inverted NF acceptor based BHJ OSCs.
[38] focused on improving the built-in potential and reducing the series resistance of BHJ OSCs by optimising the work function of ETL and forming ohmic contacts with the active layer acceptor materials.
In view of the above, in this paper, we studied the interference of the incident and reflected electric fields of the electromagnetic radiation and exciton generation rate in the active layer of a conventional fullerene acceptor based BHJ OSC, and two NF acceptor based BHJ OSCs, of inverted and conventional structures, as a function of the thickness of the active layer.
The schematic structures of OSC1, OSC2, and OSC3 are shown in Figure 2a–c, respectively, and the details of their structures are as follows: OSC1: an inverted BHJ OSC with a non-fullerene acceptor of the structure: Glass/indium tin oxide (ITO) (150 nm)/zinc oxide (ZnO) (30 nm)/Poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexylthio)-4-fluorothiophen-2-yl)-benzo [1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1’,2′-c:4′,5′-c’]dithiophene-4,8-dione)]: C94H78F4N4O2S4 (PBDBTSF:IT4F)/molybdenum trioxide (MoO3)(10 nm)/Aluminium (Al) (100 nm) [47,48] (Figure 2a); OSC2: a conventional non-fullerene BHJ OSC of the structure: Glass/ITO(150 nm)/poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):polystyrenesulfonate (PEDOT:PSS) (30 nm)/PBDB-T-SF:IT-4F/Poly(9,9-bis(3′-(N,N-dimethyl)-N-ethylammoinium-propyl-2,7-fluorene)-alt-2,7-(9,9-dioctylfluorene))dibromide (PFN-Br) (5 nm)/Al (100 nm) [49] (Figure 2b); and OSC3: a conventional fullerene BHJ OSC of the structure: Glass/ITO (180 nm)/PEDOT:PSS (45 nm)/poly(3-hexylthiophene):[6,6]-phenyl C61-butyric acid methyl ester (P3HT:PCBM)/Lithium Fluoride (LiF) (1 nm)/Al (100 nm) [50,51] (Figure 2c).
In this view, it may be concluded that the inverted structure has higher Jsc than conventional structure in both fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor based BHJ OSCs.
Finally, we discuss the simulation results of OSC3, which is a fullerene acceptor based BHJ OSC of the conventional structure.
It is also very conclusive from Figure 4 that OSC3 produces relatively the lowest Jsc in comparison with OSC1 and OSC2, which may be attributed to the use of fullerene acceptor [60].
Characterisation of the exciton generation rates has been carried out in three different BHJ OSCs: (i) an inverted non-fullerene acceptor based OSC1; (ii) a conventional non-fullerene acceptor based OSC2; and (iii) a conventional fullerene acceptor based OSC3.
The photoactive solution was prepared by mixing the donor material (P3HT) and the acceptor material (PCBM) with the optimized blending ratio of 1:0.6.
In addition, considerable stoichiometric deviations lead to a large density of donor–acceptor states due to various point defects (vacancies, interstitials, etc.)
Similar efficiency enhancement was obtained in organic solar cells using blends of P3HT donor with [6,6]-phenyl-C70butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM) acceptor (Fig.
6(a) it becomes evident that in all cases the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of IC60BA acceptor lies above the conduction band minimum of TiO2 which indicates that electron extraction occurs via transport of electrons through the conduction band of TiO2.
TTF-CA consists of a face-to-face stack of alternating electron donor (D = TTF) and electron acceptor (A = CA) molecules along the a-axis (Fig. 1a)21–23.
TTF is an electron donor (D) and CA is an electron acceptor (A).
TTF is an electron donor (D) and CA is an electron acceptor (A).
Organic photovoltaic devices were made using a blend of the fullerene acceptor PC71BM with the molecular weight fractions.
Recently, PCDTBT has begun to replace P3HT as the benchmark material for OPV devices8 and has been used to evaluate new techniques for large-area thin-film deposition910 novel electron donor materials1112 and electrode interfacial layers in functional devices21314.
The molecular weight of donor polymers has been shown to affect the performance of OPVs, particularly for P3HT:PCBM1819 blends.
The P3HT–fullerene hybrids thus formed were thereafter evaluated as potential compatibilizers of BHJ active layers comprising P3HT and fullerene based acceptors.
In the direction of materials development, new polymeric electron donating materials with complex architectures and lower energy levels [11,12,13,14,15] compared to P3HT, and new electron acceptors based on fullerene [16,17,18] or even fully organic and polymeric ones [19,20,21], have been reported.
Based on these findings it can be concluded that the particular “perfluorophenyl”-“azide”-“carbon nanostructure hybrid” methodology is conveniently applicable for the development of side hybrid semiconducting polymer electron donors allowing the insertion of fullerene species in the desired percentage.
Such hybrid polymer–fullerene materials can be employed as additives of typical polymer-donor:fullerene-acceptor active layer blends for OPVs.
This optimal scheme of bandgap cannot be implemented directly to OSCs due to a lack of donor materials having band energies as small as 1 eV [8].
New donor–acceptor conjugated alternating or random copolymers containing 1-methyl-2-phenylbenzimidazole and benzothiadiazole (P1), diketopyrrolopyrrole (P4), or both acceptors (P2) are reported.
For comparative reasons, polymers of the same main chain but deprived of the MPI group were prepared, namely, P5 with diketopyrrolopyrrole and P3 with both acceptors.
Bulk heterojunction solar cells fabricated from these polymers (with PC71BM acceptor) show low series resistance (rs), indicating good electrical transport properties.
In the past two decades, significant research efforts have been directed towards the elaboration of conjugated donor–acceptor copolymers of –(D–A)– or –(D–A–D)– types [1,2,3,4,5].
Bulk-heterojunction-type test devices were fabricated from polymers containing 1-methyl-2-phenyl imidazole groups as donors and fullerene derivatives (PC71BM) as acceptors.
The same applies to P4 and P5 containing the diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) acceptor.
P1 is different because it contains benzothiadiazole (BT) as an acceptor, whereas in the repeat units of P2 and P3, two acceptor groups can be distinguished, namely, benzothiadiazole (BT) and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP).
Donor–acceptor (D-A) polymers containing phenyl imidazole units have been reported in the literature, including those containing methoxystyryl donors [37].
In this paper, we demonstrate that these parameters can be significantly improved in polymers containing phenylimidazole groups by the appropriate selection of the donor and acceptor units in the polymer main chain.
Absorption spectra of the synthesized polymers strongly depend on the nature of the acceptor units present in the macromolecule.
Replacement of benzothiadiazole (BT) in P1 with a significantly stronger acceptor such as diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) yields P4.
This is not unexpected since stronger donor–acceptor interactions usually result in the significant narrowing of the optical band gap (Egopt).
Incorporation of an additional acceptor to the repeat unit is usually beneficial for photovoltaic applications because it may result in a significant broadening of the absorption bands, leading to their better overlapping with the solar spectrum [39].
This broadening, together with a significant bathochromic shift of the absorption band, is very pronounced in the case of P2, which contains two acceptor groups in its repeat unit (BT and DPP).
As expected, the largest band gap, 1.84 eV, is observed for P1, i.e., the only polymer containing a weaker acceptor (BT) instead of a stronger DPP one.
Since both polymers differ by the acceptor unit nature only, the more difficult reduction of P1 reflects the weaker electroaccepting properties of benzothiadiazole compared to diketopyrrolopyrrole.
P2 and P3 contain both (BT and DPP) acceptor units and, for this reason, undergo a two-step reduction.
This value was clearly higher than that determined for P5 (0.38 eV, see Table 2), i.e., the polymer in which DPP was the sole acceptor unit.
Before discussing in detail the photovoltaic properties of the newly developed polymers containing 1-methyl-phenyl imidazole, it is instructive to justify their application as donors in organic cells, together with PC71BM acceptor.
As already mentioned, by selecting appropriate electron-rich and electron-poor units in the polymer main chain, we could adjust the crucial material parameters of the donor component of the cell.
It is generally accepted that in properly operating photovoltaic cells, the difference between the values of |EA| of the donor and |EA| of the acceptor should be superior to 0.3 eV if excitons are generated in the donor phase.
By symmetry, the difference between IP of the donor and IP of the acceptor should also be superior to 0.3 eV if excitons are formed in the acceptor phase [47,48,49].
Different local positions of these dipoles may cause a broad distribution of the electronic density of states, which could be more pronounced at the donor–acceptor interfaces.
As indicated in Figure 7, absorption bands of the donor and acceptor components of the bulk heterojunctions (marked by arrows) are located in the visible part of the spectrum (for the shape of the spectra of P2 and P4, see Figure 1; the spectrum of PC71BM can be found in [50]).
To summarize, we have synthesized new donor–acceptor-type conjugated copolymers modified by the fusion of a permanent dipole-bearing moiety (1-methyl-2-phenyl imidazole, MPI) to the 1,4-phenylene group of the main chain.
A PDI derivative, bis-PDI, and a fullerene derivative, PC70BM, are mixed with an efficient polymer donor, PffBT4T-2OD.
The X-ray scattering and surface energy characterizations revealed that the structurally dissimilar bis-PDI and PC70BM molecules determine the variation in blend film morphologies, and in particular, the molecular packing features of the donor PffBT4T-2OD polymer.
For these reasons, it is not clear whether fullerene derivatives are ultimately the best candidate materials for use as OSC acceptors.
Several research groups have focused on the development of non-fullerene small molecule acceptors.
To date, numerous small molecule non-fullerene acceptors have been designed and found to provide PCEs that are comparable to those achieved using fullerene derivatives4,6–8.
Despite their attractive features, PDI-based acceptors have met with little success, and few PDI systems have shown PCEs just over 8%16,17.
Unfortunately, in polymer donor:monomeric-PDI acceptor based systems, large-scale phase separation induced by strong molecular aggregation among monomeric PDIs can seriously limit excimers7 dissociation and charge transport18,19.
Therefore, a thorough comparative analysis of the molecular structures of small molecule acceptors and their solid-state properties is necessary for further development of PDI-based acceptors.
In this work, we have studied the morphological and photovoltaic properties of a PDI derivative (bis-PDI) and compared with well-known fullerene-based acceptor (PC70BM), combined with donor polymer, poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3′′′-di(2-octyldodecyl)-2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2′′′-quaterthiophen-5,5′′′-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD).
PffBT4T-2OD is a crystalline polymeric donor with a broad absorption spectrum in visible region, and OSC devices reported with fullerene acceptors exhibited PCE of 10.8%, one of the highest PCE values recorded for single OSC25.
The bis-PDI small molecule was synthesized by a modified procedure as described in the supporting information, and used as an acceptor material because of its strong light absorption in visible region (420–600 nm), good electron mobility, and favorable energy level matching with PffBT4T-2OD donor polymer.
BHJ OSCs were fabricated with device structure of glass/indium tin oxide (ITO)/zinc oxide (ZnO)/donor:acceptor/vanadium oxide (V2O5)/Ag, and current density-voltage (J-V) characteristics of the optimized PffBT4T-2OD:PC70BM and PffBT4T-2OD:bis-PDI OSCs are shown in Fig. 2a.
The high value of VOC for PffBT4T-2OD:bis-PDI OSC is assigned to the high LUMO energy level of the bis-PDI acceptor26.Figure 2(a) J-V curves and (b) EQE spectra of PffBT4T-2OD:PC70BM and PffBT4T-2OD:bis-PDI based BHJ OSCs.Table 1Photovoltaic properties of the PffBT4T-2OD:PC70BM, PffBT4T-2OD:bis-PDI OSCs under standard AM1.5 G illumination.
The higher value of PL quenching for PffBT4T-2OD:PC70BM (93.2%) indicates a better exciton dissociation at the donor/acceptor interface than in the PffBT4T-2OD:bis-PDI (79.9%).
The crystalline properties of the PC70BM and bis-PDI acceptors in the presence of the PffBT4T-2OD polymer were investigated using GIWAXS experiments (Figures S6, S7).
The electron and hole mobilities of the two blend systems were evaluated using the space charge limited current (SCLC) method18 with controlled device structures: ITO/ZnO/donor:acceptor/Ca/Al for electron-only and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/donor:acceptor/Au for hole-only devices (Table 1, Figure S8)18.
The inverted structure of the OSC devices was prepared with the structure: stack glass/ITO (110 nm)/ZnO (40 nm)/donor:acceptor/V2O5 (2 nm)/Ag (100 nm).
The hole- and electron-only control devices were prepared with the device structure ITO/PEDOT:PSS/donor:acceptor/Au and ITO/ZnO/donor:acceptor/Ca/Al, respectively.
7, stabilizing angles, structure molecular and HOMO- LUMO orbitals and its donor and acceptor capacity in sensitized molecules under typical environmental conditions.
The photo-induced excitations of sunlight occur in the donor material.
These excitons disseminate the scope of a donor / acceptor interface, where the transfer of electrons to the acceptor takes place.
Although OPVs using non-fullerene acceptors have recently outperformed their fullerene-based counterparts, the research in the development of new fullerenes and in the improvement of the bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) morphology and device efficiency of polymer:fullerene solar cells remains very active.
This review is primarily focused on studies that involve the improvement of the BHJ morphology, efficiency and stability of small active area devices (typically < 15 mm2), through the use of different processing strategies such as the use of different fullerene acceptors, different processing solvents and additives and different thermal treatments.
Polymer solar cells were dominated, for over two decades, by donor: acceptor blends based on fullerene acceptors.
However, due to rapid developments in non-fullerene (NF) small molecule acceptors, in recent years NF acceptors have outperformed the fullerene acceptors and a large number of reviews have recently addressed the application of this newer type of acceptors in OPVs [10,11,12,13,14,15].
These studies include either changing the morphology through the use of different processing strategies (different solvents and additives; different thermal treatments; different donor: acceptor ratios; etc.)
The typical active layer in a OPV device is composed of a blend of an electron donating polymer and an electron acceptor which can be either fullerene-based (PC71BM, PC61BM or others) or a non-fullerene small organic molecule.
This donor: acceptor blend is known as bulk-hetero-junction (BHJ).
Figure 3a represents the typical band diagram for a donor: acceptor bulk-hetero-junction in an OPV device.
Then, the excitons created must diffuse to a donor: acceptor interface where they dissociate efficiently into holes and electrons (steps 2 and 3 in Figure 3a).
At this point, it is worth emphasizing that until a few years ago the LUMO-LUMO offset (ΔLUMO) between the donor and the acceptor was considered to be the driving force needed to split the tightly bound excitons and a ΔLUMO ≥ 0.3 V was regarded as the minimum necessary to ensure efficient charge transfer [22].
In the ideal morphology, most of the excitons created can find nearby (distance < LD) a donor:acceptor interface where they dissociate generating free charge carriers and therefore the corresponding device has a high PCE.
By contrast, in the morphology with very large phase segregation most of the excitons when created are too far away (distance > LD) from the nearest donor:acceptor interface and they recombine.
Therefore, the ideal morphology for a BHJ is typically considered to be a bi-continuous and interpenetrating comb-like network morphology composed of donor-rich and acceptor-rich phases, with the donor phase smallest dimension of ~20 nm.
The open circuit voltage (Voc) [41,42,43,44] is primarily dependent on the energy difference between the LUMO level of the acceptor and the HOMO level of the donor: the higher the difference, the higher the Voc.
Therefore, the main strategy usually followed to increase Voc consists in utilizing either fullerene acceptors with higher LUMO levels or donor polymers with lower HOMO levels.
As long as the LUMO of the fullerene acceptor remains lower than the LUMO of the polymer donor by an amount sufficient to promote charge separation, raising the fullerene LUMO level or lowering the polymer HOMO level should increase the Voc and thus the PCE.
As the D:A junction degrades (by molecular conformation and orientation and/or energetically inappropriate levels of D:A materials) the I-V behaviour becomes more space charge limited (SCLC) dependent and the I-V curve displays a typical “s-shape.” Common strategies to reduce Rs and increase Rsh include using buffer layers to reduce recombination [55], increasing the crystallinity of the BHJ materials [55,61], changing the donor: acceptor mass ratios [62] and optimizing the size of phase domains in the BHJ [55,61].
We must therefore primarily search for donors (polymers) with reduced (as possible) bandgap (HOMO—LUMO difference) to increase the solar light absorption in the visible spectrum.
Once again, this process is almost (besides energy levels) dominated by the molecular structure/conformation of the donor/acceptor materials in the active film.
All the referred parameters are intrinsically related to the donor and acceptor compounds used and their interaction in the solid state.
In polymer:fullerene solar cells the role of light absorption has traditionally been assigned to the polymer donor, for the simple reason that fullerenes do not absorb strongly in the visible and near-infrared region of the spectrum.
Besides the low optical bandgaps to broaden the absorption range into the infrared spectrum, polymers used as electron donors in polymer:fullerene solar cells should exhibit suitable LUMO energy levels for efficient electron transfer to the fullerene moieties and crystalline characteristics to ensure good charge mobility [68].
These two fullerenes, PC61BM and PC71BM, are now utilized as reference acceptors for all kinds of other fullerene acceptors, because of their good solubility, high electron mobility and high chemical stability.
Although PC61BM and PC71BM are the most commonly used fullerenes in organic solar cells, several other modified fullerenes such as those depicted in Figure 5 are found in literature with specific characteristics and have been assessed as acceptors in BHJs.
Impedance spectroscopy results indicate that DIO maximizes the charge transfer from the BHJ to the electrode by minimizing the recombination rate at the donor/acceptor interface and increasing the charge carrier lifetime.
A new fullerene acceptor (ICBM in Figure 5) was synthesized by He et al.
Two new fullerene acceptors, namely N3 and N6 in Figure 5, were synthetized by Nagarjuna et al.
Lower solubility of N6 in 1,2-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB) may cause reduced donor-acceptor interface for excitons to be broken up into charges and insufficient percolation paths for charges to get collected at the electrode in PTB7:N6 films, resulting in higher recombination than in PTB7:N3 devices.
[105] as an electron-cascade acceptor material in ternary blend devices of PTB7:PC71BM:ICBA.
NCBA has a LUMO between the LUMOs of PTB7 and PC71BM and, therefore, plays a bridging role allowing the acceptor energy level to be tuned by changing the ratio of NCBA:PC71BM in the blend acceptor material.
[7] reported highly efficient ternary cells based on PTB7-Th:COi8DFIC (Acceptor A1):PC71BM (Acceptor A2), where COi8DFIC is a non-fullerene small molecule acceptor.
The mass ratio between PTB7-Th and A1+A2 was fixed to 1:1.5, while the content of A2 in acceptors was varied from 0 to 100%.
These ternary cells combine the advantage of fullerene acceptors (high μe) and non-fullerene acceptors (strong visible or NIR absorption).
Transient Absorption (TA) measurements combined with UV wavelength cut-off degradation experiments suggest that the burn-in may be triggered by a spin flip at the donor/acceptor interface, leading to the formation of PC71BM triplet anions and the accumulation of electrostatic potential energy.
The release of this excess electrostatic potential energy promotes a disordering of the weakly bonded nanomorphological order, mostly in the PC71BM domains near the donor/acceptor interface.
The carrier transport loss mechanism in PTB7-Th BHJs based on the amorphous fullerene acceptor PyF5, as well as on the semi-crystalline fullerene acceptors FAP1 and PC61BM (see chemical structures of PyF5 and FAP1 in Figure 5) were studied by Zhang et al.
The small band gap donor polymer poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3‴-di(2-octyldodecyl)2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2‴-quaterthiophen-5,5‴-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD) has recently attracted attention due to its potential to fabricate high performing OPV devices.
[120] have tested the use of a large number of different fullerene acceptors (PC71BM, PC61BM, TC71BM, PC61PM, TC61PM and ICMA—Figure 5) in devices based on the polymer PffBT4T-2OD and on other family related polymers.
Their results have shown that the efficiency of the devices obtained using different fullerenes were all very similar (average values within the range 9.3–10.3%) and this observation led these authors to conclude that the aggregation behaviour of PffBT4T-2OD is insensitive to the presence of the fullerene acceptor and can be efficiently used to control the morphology of the corresponding BHJs.
[127] studied the effect of three different fullerene acceptors (PC71BM, PC61BM and ICBA) on the performance of solar cells based on PffBT4T-2OD.
Although non-fullerene acceptors have now surpassed fullerenes in terms of performance in OPVs, the research for developing new fullerenes and the morphological and efficiency optimization of polymer:fullerene solar cells, remains very intense.
This article reviews the most relevant OPV studies, from a morphological viewpoint, involving BHJs of conjugated polymers PTB7, PTB7-Th and PffBT4T-2OD with fullerene acceptors, over the last 3 years (from 2016 onwards).
As reported in this review, the strategies followed, so far, for synthesizing new fullerene acceptors for OPVs have been largely based on single-molecule properties and nowadays theoretical calculations (ab initio) can, for example, estimate with high accuracy the HOMO-LUMO levels of new fullerene acceptors.
Recent research trends suggest that the future of fullerenes in the OPV field might be not on their use as main electron acceptors but rather in ternary BHJs (polymer:acceptor1:acceptor 2) in combination with other non-fullerene small molecule acceptors.
We show that the rhodanine acceptor moieties, and in particular the carbonyl oxygens, undergo protonation, leading to nonradiative excited-state deactivation.
Our study highlights the impact of selecting such acceptor group in the structural design of organic dyes for solar cell applications and the overlooked role of protons to quench the excited state for such chemical structures.
Plenty of synthesizing organic dyes utilized in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), are based on the donor–linker–acceptor (D−π–A) architecture.1−5 Generally, these photosensitizers utilized in DSSCs have carboxylic acid units (COOH) as anchoring groups for strong adsorption on semiconductor surfaces.
To study such an effect, we selected the indoline dyes as a case of study, as it has been shown that protons can dramatically quench the excited-state lifetime of these dyes in solution.11 Indoline dyes consist of an indoline donor moiety, and different acceptor units; the better-known ones are D102, D149, D205, and D131 (see Figure 1 for molecular structures).
The rhodanine (in D149, D205, and D102), and cyano-acrylic groups (in D131) are considered important acceptor moieties.4,12 The indoline sensitizers have shown high efficiencies (ca.
Also, the interactions with solvents showed emission lifetimes, which were inversely proportional to the hydrogen-bond donor strength of the solvent, suggesting a direct involvement of hydrogen bonds in the excited-state dynamics.21
Chemical structure of the investigated indoline dyes showing the donor moiety and different acceptor groups, along with their abbreviated names.
The spectral positions of absorption and emission for these dyes depend on the strength of the acceptor moieties in the following order: cyano-acrylic < one rhodanine < two rhodanines.36 The absorption and emission spectra of the D149 dye were reported previously in different environments.16,17,37 The spectral shape and position of D149, D149Ester (the ester form of D149), and D205 dyes are similar; see Figure S1 in the Supporting Information (SI).
However, the monomer species of these dyes (D149, D102, and D205) are shielded in other solvents like MeOH (∼70 ps) and CHCl3 (∼750 ps).21 Protic solvents are expected to interact locally with the O or S atoms at the acceptor (rhodanine) moieties by forming O–H or S–H bonds, which are reinforced in the excited state due to the intramolecular charge transfer (CT) process from the indoline (donor) to the rhodanine (acceptor) group.
This rearrangement of the solute–solvent, and consequently solvent–solvent H-bonds network, has been recently suggested to be responsible for the nonradiative excited-state quenching via the so-called hydrogen-bond-induced nonradiative deactivation (HBIND).38 Since CHCl3 can locally interact, as H-bond donor, with the electronegative sites of the molecules (rhodanine, indoline, and COOH) but does not possess a network of H-bonds, the dissipation of energy to the solvent is not effective as in the MeOH case.
The excited-state lifetimes of the D131 dye (with cyano-acrylic acceptor group) showed similar dynamic behavior in acetonitrile and in MeOH (ca.
Due to the charge transfer nature of the lowest-energy excited state in D149, moving the electronic density from the indoline donor (the N electron-rich atom) to the rhodanine anchoring group, we can expect a consequent change in the topology and strength of CAA–D149 H-bond interactions going from S0 to S1, similarly to what was found by some of us for Z907 in protic solvents.52,53 Thus, we examined various D149–CAA complexes by fully optimizing the structure in both ground and lowest-energy excited states, and considering all of the possible electron-rich atoms in the molecule and two different D149 isomers, termed D149a and D149b, differing for the rotation of the COOH anchoring group, as shown in Figure S5.
For the D149 dye, most of the electronegative atoms (S and O) are located on the anchoring moiety (rhodanine and carboxylic acid units) except one indole nitrogen in the donor unit.
In the excited state, D149-CAA_COOH is still the energetically favored adduct but complexation through the oxygens of the rhodanine rings is now considerably stabilized (about 10–15 kJ/mol) due to the S0 → S1 charge transfer and, consequently, the binding to the indoline N donor is slightly destabilized.
To elucidate, however, the mechanism of this proton quenching when a proton donor, like a carboxylic acid or a strong protic solvent, is present and bounded to the dye already in the ground state, we performed a relaxed energy scan in both S0 and S1 for the transfer of the proton in a CAA–D149 complex, where the acid interacts by H-bonds with both the rhodanine oxygen and the carboxylic group (see the optimized S0 and S1 structures in Figures S8 and S9).
Quantum chemical calculations showed that ground-state complexation essentially happens through carboxylic acid groups, and that in the excited state, the carbonyl oxygens of the rhodanine rings are also liable to strongly interact with proton donors and thus undergo protonation.
The miscibility of the additive and the donor polymer plays a significant role in the enhancement of the device performance, therefore, ternary additives can be designed to better interact with the conjugated polymer.
The typical OPV requires complimentary donor/acceptor semiconductors to harvest photons and convert them into current.
A strategy to improve device performance is to use functional ternary additives, which can be added to existing donor–acceptor systems while providing additional functionality such as increased stability or increased photogeneration.1–4 Silicon phthalocyanines (SiPcs) are a promising class of ternary additive due to their low manufacturing cost, industrial abundance and ability to efficiently transport electrons.5–7 Bis(tri-hexylsilyl) SiPcs ((3HS)2-SiPc) and bis(tri-butylsilyl) SiPcs ((3BS)2-SiPc) were previously employed as a ternary additive in poly(3-hexylthiophene):phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (P3HT:PC61BM) bulk heterojunction (BHJ) OPV devices and provided a 20% increase in power conversion efficiency due to the additional absorption at 685 nm8,9 Following these initial studies, researchers have explored engineering new SiPcs through increasing the conjugation of the axial groups with pyrenes to improve absorption in the UV region10,11 as well as increasing the conjugation of the macrocycle to increase absorption in the NIR region.12–14 SiPcs have even been modified to impart both additional photogeneration and increased device stability through active layer crosslinking.15 Our group16 and others14,17 have also found that the length of the axial groups and the resulting change in solubility play a critical role in the effectiveness of the ternary additive in a P3HT:PC61BM system.
In this study we reported that the choice of processing technique such as blade coating versus spin coating led to different optimal (3HS)2-SiPc loadings; further suggesting the molecular structure of the ternary additive and the film formation process are critical for improving the performance of the device.20 However, increased miscibility between donor polymer and ternary additive could lead to better phase separation between domains, which would improve exciton dissociation, charge transport and potentially enhance overall device performance.21–24 (3HS)2-SiPc has been characterized to be preferentially located at the interface of P3HT/PC61BM rather than the bulk phases, leading to favourable device performance due to enhanced charge and energy transfer between (3HS)2-SiPc and P3HT/PC61BM interfaces.17 However, when using PCDTBT:PC71BM the locations of SiPc based additives in the corresponding ternary thin films yet to be explored.
By matching the donor polymer with the axial groups of the additive, we surmise improved miscibility will improve the device performance.
1).28 The custom phonoxy derivative was designed to mimic the solubilizing carbazole repeat unit of PCDTBT with the intention to increase miscibility with the donor phase in the resulting BHJ OPVs.
It has been reported that additives with a surface energy value intermediate between that of the donor and acceptor materials will migrate to the interface17,32,33 As designed, the surface energy of (CBzPho)2-SiPc is almost identical to that of PCDTBT (∼24 N mm−1) where the contact angles of (CBzPho)2-SiPc and PCDTBT are 97° and 96°, respectively.
However, the addition of (CBzPho)2-SiPc decreased the PCDTBT:PC71BM contribution in the region of 400–650 nm, which is consistent with the drop in JSC likely due to the disruption of desired BHJ morphology from the segregation at donor phase.8,37 The total absorption spectra of the devices (Fig.
As a ternary additive in PCDTBT:PC71BM OPV devices, CBzPho2-SiPc showed a significant EQE contribution from 680 to 730 nm; however, decreased PCDTBT:PC71BM contribution, resulting in a net loss in the short-circuit current density suggested the additive was not at the interface between donor and acceptor and that the (CBzPho)2-SiPc is likely dispersed in the PCDTBT domain and acted as hole traps leading to a drop in the device performance or this drop in performance could simply be a result of poor ternary film morphology.
Recent research on organic photodetectors based on donor–acceptor systems has resulted in narrow-band, flexible and biocompatible devices, of which the best reach external photovoltaic quantum efficiencies approaching 100%.
By modeling the dark current of several donor–acceptor systems, we reveal the interplay between traps and charge-transfer states as source of dark current and show that traps dominate the generation processes, thus being the main limiting factor of organic photodetectors detectivity.The suppression of dark current in organic photodetectors (OPDs) is important for maximizing the performance of the devices.
Here, the authors report the relationship between the high dark saturation current and the presence of mid-gap trap states in OPDs with a donor–acceptor structure.
However, in organic diodes formed by a donor–acceptor (D–A) structure, charge-transfer (CT) states are present at the interface13.
1Specific detectivity and spectral noise density.a D*of two donor:C60 (6 mol%) material systems assuming shot noise at −1 V and EQE as measured (solid lines), shot noise at −1 V and normalized EQE at the maximum of the spectrum (hatched region), and shot noise in the radiative limit and EQE as measured (dashed lines).
b Sn of four donor:C60 (6 mol%) material systems.
a D*of two donor:C60 (6 mol%) material systems assuming shot noise at −1 V and EQE as measured (solid lines), shot noise at −1 V and normalized EQE at the maximum of the spectrum (hatched region), and shot noise in the radiative limit and EQE as measured (dashed lines).
b Sn of four donor:C60 (6 mol%) material systems.
The dark current as well as the open-circuit voltage (VOC) have been shown to relate to the energy difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor23,24.
While ECT is linked to the energy levels of donor and acceptor, a direct relation cannot be drawn as it hides polarization effects and binding energies, which can strongly modify the energy value, depending on the materials and mixing ratios26.
To investigate this, we fabricate a series of devices optimized in terms of dark currents (selective contacts, appropriate blocking layers and optimized device engineering), based on different donors blended with C60 at 6 mol%.
Here, low donor content bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) have been chosen to ensure a comparable morphology, which is known to depend on D–A mixing ratio26,30, miscibility31, and aggregation properties32.
Details about the series of donors and materials used to fabricate the devices can be found in Supplementary Tables 2 and 3.
2a, the experimental dark JV characteristics of seven different devices employing different donor molecules combined with C60 are shown.
This implies that for high-ECT combinations, from Spiro-MeO-TPD towards lower HOMOs, an injection barrier for holes under forward bias is formed between donor and electron blocking layer (EBL: MeO-TPD).
For low-ECT combinations, having TTDTP, TPDP, or m-MTDATA as donor, an extraction barrier under reverse bias is formed at the same interface.
The microscopic properties of a D–A system are related to the electronic characteristics of the device, e.g., donor concentration usually affects VOC, because the number of CT states and their energy change.
d Trap density (left black y-axis) and |JD(−1.0 V | (right red y-axis) versus donor concentration.
d Trap density (left black y-axis) and |JD(−1.0 V | (right red y-axis) versus donor concentration.
Inset in (a) shows the reverse region in detail and in (b) a schematic representation of a mid-gap trap distribution in the donor–acceptor system.
Inset in (a) shows the reverse region in detail and in (b) a schematic representation of a mid-gap trap distribution in the donor–acceptor system.
This barrier arises from the difference of HOMO level of the donor TPDP15 and the EBL, MeO-TPD50.
Besides quantitatively describing the dark current of ZnPc and TPDP donors, by a variation of ECT, our model is also able to reproduce the entire range of experimental JD, depicted in Fig. 2a.
For all of them, Nt ranges from 1015 to 1016 cm−3, obtained from the fit of the measured spectra to a Gaussian distribution, indicating a rather general trend for donor:C60 BHJs (see Supplementary Figs.
Although our results point to an interfacial interaction between donor and acceptor, the origin of trap states is still unknown and further research needs to be done to clarify this aspect.
In a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cell, the absorption layer is composed of nanoscale-blended donor and acceptor molecules [3, 6].
Fullerene derivatives are often used as acceptors because the donor is usually conjugated with polymers, oligomers, or conjugated pigments.
Therefore, properties of the donor–acceptor, such as energy level arrangement and charge carrier mobility, can be modified and designed by introducing new donors to optimize the OSCs [5, 7].
Recently, our group developed new indoloindole-based donor–acceptor type donor polymers for OSCs.
In this work, we designed and synthesized the electron-rich donor–donor type compound poly(IDI-selenophene–vinylene–selenophene) (P-IDI-SVS, Scheme 1) by introducing SVS as a donor unit for organic electronics.
Consequently, we fabricated efficient BHJ solar cells based on the newly designed P-IDI-SVS donor polymer through solvent engineering.
A P-IDI-SVS:PC70BM solution was prepared at a concentration of 20 mg/mL as a function of a donor:acceptor ratio (1:2 w/w) in CB with 1-chloronaphthalene (CN) 3 vol% and diiodooctane (DIO) 3 vol%.
And the energy level diagram shows that the electrons are highly mobile, making the material suitable for use as a donor.
The slow evaporation can prevent the aggregation of the acceptor PC70BM to induce nano-phase separation, because PC70BM easily pulls each other [19].
Therefore, the DIO material, which is known as a representative material of the solvent additive, was applied as an additive to secure the solubility of the donor material with respect to the solvent [20].
P-IDI-SVS(THF) was used as a donor to form an organic active layer, and the additive was applied to the solvent to optimize the device.
Based on these results, the P-IDI-SVS(THF) material was optimized, and a solvent additive was used to improve the phase separation of the donor–acceptor [33].
Therefore, the active layer using the P-IDI-SVS(THF) donor increases the quenching rate at CB–CN3% via solvent additive, resulting in rapid exciton separation [39].
Figure 7 shows the distribution of BHJ and only donor components in the device by Raman spectroscopy.
7a, stronger intensities and clear peaks can be found in the only donor containing CN additives.
Thus, it is expected that more charge generation and current increase effects can be expected in the BHJ layer with more donor and acceptor blended in CB–CN3%.Fig.
7Raman Spectroscopy of a P-IDI-SVS(THF) (only donor) and b P-IDI-SVS(THF):PC70BM (BHJ films) of donor only films with CB and CB–CN3% solvent
Raman Spectroscopy of a P-IDI-SVS(THF) (only donor) and b P-IDI-SVS(THF):PC70BM (BHJ films) of donor only films with CB and CB–CN3% solvent
In summary, we newly synthesized P-IDI-SVS by introducing SVS as a donor unit for excellent intermolecular interactions.
As a result of this solvent engineering, we created an efficient P-IDI-SVS(THF):PC70BM BHJ solar cell based on the newly designed P-IDI-SVS donor polymer.
Solubility test images of P-IDI-SVS from different Soxhlet solvents of CB, CF, and THF at 80 °C without magnetic bars (donor only in CB solvent).
Solubility test images of P-IDI-SVS from different Soxhlet solvents of CB, CF, and THF at 80 °C without magnetic bars (donor only in CB solvent).
Here, we have identified tetrabenzotriazacorroles (Tbcs) as complementary absorbing chromophores and electron donors to the promising nonfullerene acceptors boron subphthalocyanines (BsubPcs).
These two materials, which can be utilized as donor–acceptor pairs within fullerene-free OPVs, yield spectral coverage over the entire visible range of 300–750 nm.
Oxy phosphorus Tbc derivative (POTbc) was employed as an electron donor and paired initially with multiple BsubPc derivatives having a distribution of highest occupied molecular orbital/lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy levels in planar heterojunction OPVs.
Researchers have broadly deviated from the use of fullerenes (C60 and C70) as electron-accepting materials due to their inefficient synthetic process1,2 and their unfavorable absorption in the visible spectrum.3,4 The introduction of materials that absorb broadly in the visible spectrum and of the usage of nonfullerene-based electron acceptor with high absorptivity are of great interest.
Similar approaches have been addressed using ternary mixtures within bulk-heterojunction OPVs12−16 including the use of copolymers synthesized by the combination of electron-deficient and electron-rich comonomers, so-called push–pull or donor–acceptor polymers, through relatively difficult synthetic processes.17−20 The bulk-heterojunction architecture also often leads to an increased complexity of engineering the OPV systems due to the nanophase morphology.
Recently, boron subphthalocyanines (BsubPcs, Figure 1) have shown excellent electron-accepting properties and produced planar heterojunction OPV cells with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) beyond 8%.8,21−24 BsubPcs absorb strongly in wavelengths around 600 nm with high extinction coefficients ( ε > 70,000 L mol–1 cm–1) enabling the capture of a great fraction of the visible light spectrum.25 BsubPcs are relatively easy to synthesize from industrially produced precursors and even show the potential for room temperature synthesis.26 BsubPc-based OPV devices also exhibit greater outdoor stability when paired as electron acceptors such as α-sexithiophene (α-6T)27 in comparison to their fullerene-based counterparts,28 which displayed a burn-in effect within the first day of operation.
Now that their potential as electron acceptors is well established, the question becomes: what are additional appropriate electron donor materials to be paired with BsubPcs and what are the molecular design criteria to be considered?
The top performing BsubPc-based OPVs are planar heterojunctions and are based on α-6T as a donor.8,22 The issue with using α-6T is that its absorbance is limited to the blue portion of the visible spectrum.
Other molecular donors that have been employed include tetracene and pentacene21,30 as well as Pcs and BsubNcs.23 Polymers have been also employed as electron donors but in bulk-heterojunction architectures.24,32
While POTbc showed functionality both as an electron donor and as an electron acceptor, POTbc showed larger promise as an electron-donating material presumably due to its shallow HOMO level and the higher formal charge (3–) of the Tbc macrocycle.
A synthetic example of this concept was demonstrated by the group of Kobayashi, who synthesized multiple Tbc derivatives including BsubPc-Tbc-BsubPc trimer that absorbs throughout the entire visible spectrum (300–750 nm).38,43,44 With the established functionality of Tbcs as electron donors and of BsubPcs as electron acceptors, constructing OPV devices absorbing the entire visible portion of the solar spectrum was seen as highly possible.
This complementary absorption engineering approach includes: (1) scoping three BsubPc derivatives with different HOMO/LUMO energy levels as electron acceptors for optimal performance, (2) optimizing the layer thickness ratio between the donor and the optimal BsubPc acceptor, and (3) increasing the total active layer thickness while maintaining the optimal thickness ratio in an attempt to achieve %T = 0 in the visible spectrum.
Three BsubPc derivatives with varying levels of peripheral halogenation (Cl–BsubPc, Cl–Cl6BsubPc, and Cl–Cl12BsubPc, Figure 1) were employed as electron acceptors paired with POTbc initially in OPV cells at a 1 to 1 thickness ratio and a 40 nm total thickness (Figure 3).
The open-circuit voltage (VOC) of the cells dropped as expected with the decreasing offset between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor (Figure 1).
However, the short-circuit current density (JSC) peaked when Cl–Cl6BsubPc was used as the electron acceptor.
The external quantum efficiency (EQE) plots show a continuous increase of the photocurrent contribution from the POTbc as the LUMO offset between the donor and acceptor increased (Figure 3).
Cl–Cl6BsubPc was therefore selected as the acceptor for further thickness optimization, because it exhibited superior JSC, fill factor (FF), and PCE compared to the other BsubPcs when paired with POTbc.
POTbc paired with multiple BubPcs as acceptors.
Short exciton diffusion lengths can be overcome by either constructing bulk-heterojunction OPVs via thermal coevaporation or by applying an exciton-blocking layer to the donor side of the device as previously demonstrated with similar systems.10 Electron extraction from Cl–Cl6BsubPc was previously improved by replacing BCP with a mixed C60/BCP layer.23 Alternatively, the hole mobility and/or exciton diffusion length of the Tbc layer can also be via molecular design.
Outdoor stability of the champion device POTbc (15 nm)/Cl–Cl6BsubPc (45 nm) was also evaluated in accordance to the ISOS protocols.45 We have established previously in our laboratory the outdoor stability of BsubPcs as electron acceptors paired with α-6T and as electron donors paired with C60.27,28 The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the stability of POTbc as a photoactive material.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6  ] In recent years, many studies focused on improving the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs by using strategies such as designing high‐performance donor and acceptor materials, employing ternary active layer, employing tandem device structure, optimizing carrier transport layers and optimizing the fabrication process.
proved a non‐fullerene acceptor based OSC with predicted lifetime approaching 10 years.
The active layer of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) OSCs is the most critical component which possesses a nanoscale bicontinuous morphology with a mixed donor and acceptor phase.
[  27 ,  30 ,  31  ] For obtaining the best performance, the donor and acceptor mixed morphology in the active layer requires an optimum condition to satisfy an efficient exciton dissociation and charge carriers transport process and limit the charge recombination process, simultaneously.
[  33 ,  34  ] Due to the high mobility of donor and acceptor materials and sometimes the structural incompatibilities between donor and acceptor, the phase separation of donor and acceptor is the result of the inherent morphology evolution in most of the cases.
Simulated and measured short current density of OSCs with the donor and acceptor morphology evolution in the active layer from small domains to the larger one.
Similar to donor and acceptor materials, the carriers transport layers and electrodes of OSCs also show mobility and result in an inherent instability.
In the active layer, both the donor and acceptor components can face a photo‐oxidation process under illumination, which changes the structures of donor and acceptor materials.
[  46  ] The photo‐oxidation for polymer donors results from the generation of singlet oxygen and superoxide anions (O2−) under illumination.
[  47 ,  48  ] Polymer donor poly [[4,8‐bis[(2‐ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b']dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl][3‐fluoro‐2‐[(2‐ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4‐b]thiophenediyl]] (PTB7) shows complete loss of fluorescence after being illuminated for 250 h.[  49  ] The photo‐oxidation for fullerene acceptors can cause the photopolymerization of fullerene molecules.
[  50  ] The conventional fullerene acceptor bis(1‐[3‐(methoxycarbonyl)propyl]‐1‐phenyl)‐[6,6]C62 (PC60BM) can undergo a severe photodimerization after the exposure to sunlight.
identified a three‐phase degradation process for non‐fullerene acceptors O‐IDTBR and O‐IDFBR which contains a first photoinduced conformational change, followed by photo‐oxidation and fragmentation and a complete chromophore bleaching at the final stage.
[  52  ] The changed structures of donor and acceptors can cause the deterioration of its photovoltaic property and thus reduce the light absorption and charge generation in OSCs.
[  46 ,  53  ] The changed structures can also tune the energy levels of donor and acceptors and change the energy level alignment, which causes the loss in performance.
It is worth to mention that the photo‐degradation of fullerene acceptors can also cause the formation of persistent free radicals, which can accumulate to decrease the device performance from another pathway.
Besides photo‐oxidation, other photochemical processes such as the photolysis of polymer donors and photo‐oligomerization of fullerene acceptors are also responsible for the photo‐degradation in OSCs.
On the other hand, polymer donors are proved to own enhanced mobility under a higher temperature than their glass transition temperature (T g).
[  87  ] For small molecular acceptors, the heating can create the aggregation and crystallization in the active layer.
[  91  ] Those morphology changes can reduce the interface area between the donor and acceptor, which hinders the exciton separation and charge transport in the active layer.
[  104  ] For active layers, as mentioned, the oxygen and water can take part in the photo‐oxidation process of the donor and acceptor materials which changed their chemical structures and tuned their energy levels, absorption spectrums, and electron mobilities.
found that exposure to oxygen gas can change the electronic structure of non‐fullerene acceptors ITIC and o‐IDTBR.
They also showed that water vapor exposure could slightly change the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of these two acceptors.
Cooperating with water, the fullerene acceptor PC61BM can move and show excessive aggregation behavior.
[  104  ] Those morphology changes can cause the reduction of interface area between the donor and acceptor and induce a poor exciton separation and charge transport process.
Researchers listed many possible reasons such as the fullerene dimerization, the increased trap mediated charge recombination, the broad polydispersity of polymer donors, and organic or inorganic impurities in the film.
found that the spinodal demixing of the donor and acceptor is the leading cause for the burn‐in degradation in PTB7‐Th:PCBM based OSCs.
The photovoltaic parameters of devices in stability enhancement strategies based on donor materials design and selection
The photovoltaic parameters of devices in stability enhancement strategies based on acceptor materials design and selection
The molecular structure of donor materials can have a profound impact on the stability of OSCs.
[  172  ] Rational design of donor materials such as tuning the crystallinity and rigidity, incorporating antioxidant groups, and inducing copolymerization were all discovered as valid strategies to enhance the stability of the device.
[  27 ,  93 ,  172 ,  173 ,  174 ,  175 ,  176  ] In recent 3 years, many research interests are focused on the side chain engineering of donor materials from the stability perspective.
[  177  ] They designed and synthesized three donor materials bithienyl‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene with meta‐alkyl side chain (BDTT‐TR), bithienyl‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene with meta‐alkoxy side chain (BDTT‐O‐TR) and bithienyl‐benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene with alkylthio side chain (BDTT‐S‐TR) with different meta‐position bridging atom in the side chain (as shown in Figure  10 ) and blended these donors with fullerene acceptor PC70BM to fabricate devices.
revealed that cross‐linking groups at the end of the side chain of donor materials could enhance the stability of the device.
They modified donor oxetane‐functionalized polyfluorene‐alt‐bithiophene (F8T2Ox1) with oxetane moieties as cross‐linking groups in the side chain and paired it with PC61BM to fabricate devices.
[  178  ] Li and co‐worker proposed a similar strategy that adding UV cross‐linking in the side chain of donor materials can enhance the stability of the device.
[  179  ] They designed and synthesized donor materials poly[(2,5‐bis(2‐hexyldecyloxy)phenylene)‐alt‐(5,6‐difluoro‐4,7‐di(thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[c]‐[1,2,5]thiadiazole)] (PPDT2FBT)‐Vx with different contents of terminal vinyl‐appended side chains for cross‐linking (as shown in Figure  11 ) and found that the PPDB2FBT‐V10 based devices showed much higher thermal stability than PPDB2FBT based devices.
recently proved that polymer donor with alkoxy side chains could cause higher stability in OSCs when compared to those polymer donors with alkylthienyl side chains.
[  158  ] They compared widely used donors PTB7‐Th and poly[[4,8‐bis[5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)‐2‐thienyl]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl][2‐(2‐ethyl‐1‐oxohexyl)thieno[3,4‐b]thiophenediyl]] (PBDTTT‐C‐T) with their corresponded donors PTB7 and poly[(4,8‐bis‐(2‐ethylhexyloxy)‐benzo(1,2‐b:4,5‐b9)dithiophene)‐2,6‐diyl‐alt‐(4‐(2‐ethylhexanoyl)‐thieno[3,4‐b]thiophene‐)‐2‐6‐diyl)] (PBDTTT‐C) with alkoxy side chains (as shown in Figure  12 ) and found that the PTB7 and PBDTTT‐C based devices showed higher light stabilities.
Polymer donor with alkylthienyl side chains is not promising for stable OSCs.
More recently, they further demonstrated this conclusion by comparing donors poly[(4,8‐bis‐(2‐ethylhexyloxy)‐benzo(1,2‐b:4,5‐b′)dithiophene)‐2,6‐diyl‐alt‐((2‐ethylhexyl)‐thieno(3,4‐b)thiophene‐4‐carboxylate))‐2,6‐diyl)] (PBDTTT‐E) with alkoxy side chains and poly[(4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)‐benzo[1,2‐b;4,5‐b]dithiophene)‐2,6‐diyl‐alt‐(4‐(2‐ethylhexyl)‐thieno[3,4‐b]thiophene‐4‐carboxylate))‐2,6‐diyl)] (PBDTTT‐E‐T) with alkylthienyl side chains.
Besides side chain engineering, some other molecular design strategies of donor materials were also reported.
designed a series of A‐π‐D‐π‐A type conjugated small molecular donors benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b']dithiophene (BDT) electron‐donating core with 2‐cyano‐3‐octyloxy‐3‐oxo‐1‐propenyl (COOP) terminal electron‐accepting unit, and two regioregular oligo(3‐hexylthiophene) (nHT) (COOP‐nHT‐BDT) with different π‐conjugation chain length (as shown in Figure  13 ) and paired these donors with fullerene acceptor PC71BM to fabricate devices.
[  180  ] They found that the long‐term light stability of the device is positively related to the π‐conjugation chain length of the donor material.
The COOP‐4HT‐BDT based device showed the highest stability among those devices, which maintained 85% of its initial PCE after being illuminated in an inert atmosphere for 320 h. Their work indicates the direction for the design of small molecular donor materials toward stable OSCs.
reported the backbone engineering strategy of polymer donors.
[  141  ] They compared donors PBDTTT‐C and PBDTTT‐C‐T with their corresponded donors PTB7 and PTB7‐Th with fluorine atoms in the backbone and found that the specimens containing fluorine atoms showed higher light stability when fabricated in OSCs.
Avgeropoulos and co‐workers also reported similar works that fluorine atoms in the backbone of polymer donor materials could reduce the microstructure instability in the device and increase the stability under the burn‐in condition.
demonstrated a new strategy in polymer donor design toward stable OSCs.
[  181  ] They designed all‐conjugated block copolymers P3HT‐b‐PTB7‐Th based on the two widely used donor P3HT and PTB7‐Th (as shown in Figure  14 ).
Chemical structures of small molecular donors COOP‐nHT‐BDT with different π‐conjugation chain length.
Chemical structures of polymer donor P3HT, PTB7, and copolymer P3HT‐b‐PTB7‐Th.
In addition to the molecular design of donor materials, Cao et al.
[  182  ] They synthesized two batches of polymer donor pyrrolo[3,4‐f]benzotriazole‐5,7‐dione (TzBI) building block with benzodithiophene electron‐rich unit (PTzBI‐Si) with high and low molecular weight, represented as PTzBI‐SiH and PTzBI‐SiL.
When paired with polymer acceptor poly{[N,N′‐bis(2‐octyldodecyl)‐naphthalene‐1,4,5,8‐bis(dicarboximide)‐2,6‐diyl]‐alt‐5,5′‐(2,2′‐bithiophene)} (N2200) in OSCs, the PTzBI‐SiH based device showed both enhanced storage stability in the glove box and thermal stability under annealing at 80 °C when compared to PTzBI‐SiL based devices.
They found that the higher molecular weight of the donor can cause better miscibility between donor and acceptor in the active layer (as shown in Figure  15 ).
Additionally, the rational design of donor materials can also increase the mechanical stability of OSCs.
demonstrated that rationally decreasing the crystallinity of the polymer donor materials can increase the mechanical compliance of donor polymers without deleteriously affecting their optoelectronic properties.
pointed out that the increase of the flexibility of the polymer chain in the design of donor materials can be another way to increase the mechanical compliance of the device.
In the past few years, non‐fullerene acceptors, owing advantages of easy tenable energy level, crystallinity, and absorption spectrum, have attracted many research interests.
[  185 ,  186  ] The replacement of fullerenes with non‐fullerene acceptors were proved to effectively boost the PCE of OSCs over 16%.
demonstrated the excellent thermal stability of non‐fullerene acceptor di‐PBI based devices.
[  190  ] They compared the bay‐linked perylene bisimide derivative (di‐PBI) non‐fullerene based OSCs with its PC71BM fullerene counterpart and found that the replacement of fullerene with di‐PBI based non‐fullerene acceptor can significantly enhance the thermal stability of the device.
replaced fullerene acceptor PCBM with their newly designed non‐fullerene acceptor 3D‐shaped spirobifluorene and hexyl rhodamine (SF‐HR) in P3HT based OSCs and found that both thermal stability and burn‐in stability of the device showed a profound enhancement.
[  192  ] The better stability of non‐fullerene based OSCs in these studies was found mainly attributed to the reduced aggregation of acceptor during the aging process.
From the perspective of light stability, the application of non‐fullerene acceptor IDTBR played a significant role in recent studies.
They paired EH‐IDTBR with donor PffBT4T‐2OD and PTB7‐Th to fabricate devices, respectively.
[  142 ,  144  ] It was found that the replacement of fullerene acceptor with non‐fullerene acceptor IDTBR can both eliminate the fullerene dimerization and the increased energy disorder in the device during the burn‐in process.
[  143 ,  189  ] In addition, the replacement of fullerene with polymer acceptor in OSCs was recently proved also useful to enhance stability.
replaced PCBM with polymer acceptor N2200 in both PBDB‐T and PTzBI donor based active layer to fabricate devices.
[  193  ] They found that the polymer acceptor N2200 based device showed excellent long‐term stability under an inert atmosphere with or without thermal stress and ambient condition without encapsulation.
The N2200 polymer acceptor based active layer exhibited a clear and stable network morphology which rarely changes in the aging process, while PCBM based active layer showed aggregation (as shown in Figure  17 ).
Besides the replacement of fullerene acceptors, rational design of acceptor materials is another widely used strategy to enhance the stability of OSCs.
designed and synthesized two small molecular acceptors IDT(TCV)2 and IDTT(TCV)2 based on tricyanovinylene (TCV) electron‐accepting unit and paired them with donor PTB7‐Th to fabricate devices (as shown in Figure  18 ).
They revealed that the excellent stability of these two non‐fullerenes based devices was ascribed to the rational tuned LUMO level of and the robust internal morphology induced by TCV‐containing acceptors.
designed and synthesized a new non‐fullerene acceptor DF‐PCIC based on an unfused‐ring core containing two cyclopentadithiophene (CPDT) moieties and one 2,5‐difluorobenzene (DFB) group, as shown in Figure  19 .
[  195  ] They compared DF‐PCIC with the state‐of‐the‐art non‐fullerene acceptor ITIC in the device from the stability perspective and found that the DF‐PCIC based devices showed better thermal stability maintaining 88% of its initial PCE after the heat treatment at 150 °C for 12 h. They suggested that the stable morphology induced by the unique unfused‐ring core of DF‐PCIC is the main reason.
Moreover, in the rational design of acceptor materials, many studies focused on the modification of the well‐studied acceptors.
linked three types of bulkier qulnoxaline (TQT), benzothiadiazole (TTBT), and benzoselenadiazole (TBST) to the fullerene acceptor and designed three modified novel fullerene acceptors TQT‐C60, TBTT‐C60, and TBST‐C60 (as shown in Figure  20 ), respectively.
[  196  ] When paired with donor P3HT, they found that all three types of modified fullerene based devices showed excellent thermal stability which all maintained over 90% of its initial PCE after being heated at 130 °C for 5 h. They proved that those added bulkier groups could act as an anchoring group to suppress the aggregation of fullerene acceptors in the active layer during the aging.
designed ITIC‐2Cl‐m derivatives by modifying the ITIC with adding chlorine atoms to different positions of chlorine atoms and synthesized two novel non‐fullerene acceptors ITIC‐2Cl‐δ and ITIC‐2Cl‐γ.
Chemical structure diagrams of small molecular non‐fullerene acceptors IDT(TCV)2 and IDTT(TCV)2.
Chemical structure diagrams of small molecular non‐fullerene acceptors ITIC and DF‐PCIC.
Chemical structure diagrams of modified novel fullerene acceptors TQT‐C60, TBTT‐C60, and TBST‐C60.
Ternary blend, which contains three organic materials either donor:donor:acceptor (D1:D2:A) or donor:acceptor:acceptor (D:A1:A2) combination, usually can give a higher device performance than its binary blend counterpart.
As mentioned, many recent studies found that the application of polymer acceptor materials in the binary blend can create a more stable morphology and enhance the stability of the device.
Polymer acceptors were also recently found as a promising third component in the ternary blend to improve the stability.
added polymer acceptor N2200 as the third component into the PBDB‐T:ITIC non‐fullerene based binary system to fabricate ternary OSCs.
incorporated polymer acceptor N2200 into the PTB7‐Th:PC71BM fullerene based binary system as the third component.
Polymer acceptor N2200 was found to act as a morphology stabilizer which can create a stable fibrillar structure in the blend film (as shown in Figure  21 ).
[  213  ] The more stable morphology of the polymer acceptor based ternary active layer is the leading cause contributed to the enhancement in the stability of the ternary device.
Besides polymer acceptors, small molecular non‐fullerene and fullerene acceptor materials were also widely used as the third component in the ternary strategy.
Many studies proved that the addition of another small molecular acceptor in the fullerene based binary system could enhance the stability of the device.
designed and synthesized a novel non‐fullerene acceptor material diphenylimidazole derivative (PTN) and added it into a PTB7‐Th:PC71BM based binary system to fabricate ternary OSCs.
[  84  ] They added the non‐fullerene acceptor ITIC‐Th as the third component and proved an enhancement in the thermal stability of the device.
added a small molecular acceptor dihydronaphthyl based C60 bisadduct (NCBA) as the third component to fabricate ternary devices.
observed the same effect when they added non‐fullerene acceptor 2,2′‐((2Z,2′Z)‐(((2,5‐difluoro‐1,4‐phenylene)bis(4,4‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)‐4H‐cyclopenta[2,1‐b:3,4‐b′]dithiophene‐6,2‐diyl))bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6‐difluoro‐3‐oxo‐2,3‐dihydro‐1H‐indene‐2,1‐diylidene))dimalononitrile (HC‐PCIC) into the PBDB‐TF:PC71BM based binary system.
[  218  ] On the other hand, the addition of fullerene acceptor into a non‐fullerene based binary system was proved can enhance the stability of the device as well.
added fullerene acceptor PC71BM into the PBDB‐T:ITIC based binary system and proved an enhancement in the light stability of the device.
[  221  ] Interestingly, it was found that the stability improvement in the ternary system with both non‐fullerene and fullerene acceptors is also attributed to its more stable morphology in the ternary blend.
revealed that the ternary blends containing fullerene and non‐fullerene acceptors could benefit from the suppressed domain growth via kinetic and thermodynamic effects during the aging process and own a more stable morphology.
In addition, some other ternary combinations such as D1:D2:A system and the system with two non‐fullerene acceptors were also recently reported owing the similar effect to enhance the stability of the device.
It is suggested that the third component needs to have miscibility in the donor polymer and also needs to be partly miscible with the crystallizable acceptor to form a more stable morphology in the active layer.
synthesized a novel donor–acceptor conjugate benzodithiophene‐rhodanine‐PCBM based on the BDTRH:PCBM based BHJ binary system to fabricate single component OSCs.
designed a donor–acceptor conjugate PBDBPBI‐Cl based on the PBDB‐T‐Cl:perylene bisimide (PBI) based binary system on fabricating single component OSCs.
By using the sequential deposition technique, donor and acceptor materials were deposited as separate layers to form the active layer.
Bilayer structure can also prevent the unstable morphology problem, as there is no need to mix of donor and acceptor phase in the active layer.
[  232  ] They separately deposited the donor film and mixed acceptor film based on the poly[(4,4'‐bis(2‐butyloctoxycarbonyl‐[2,2'‐bithiophene]‐5,5‐diyl)‐alt‐(2,2'‐bithiophene‐5,5'‐diyl)] (PDCBT):ITIC:PCBM ternary system to fabricated devices.
Thermal stability of OSCs is also improved by improving the active layer/electrode interfaces, forming a stable donor/acceptor (D/A) interface, and reduced residual solvents in the active layer.
Some research area of device stability may need to focus in the future: i) design and synthesis of new polymer donor materials with balanced crystallinity/amorphism and rigidity/flexibility to simultaneously increase photo/air, thermal, and mechanical stabilities; ii) use non‐fullerene acceptors instead of PCBM for better photo/air, thermal, and mechanical stabilities; iii) in‐depth understanding of OSCs device degradation mechanisms with oxygen, water, irradiation, heating, and mechanical stress; iv) improve the PCE of OSCs on the basis of polymer with cleavable side chains and photo/air‐stable units; v) develop a uniform standard of OSCs stability tests, for example, ISOS protocols; vi) develop an advanced encapsulation technology in OSCs.
Later polymer:fullerene nanoscale network was found and bulk-heterojunction device structure was designed: polymer:fullerene blend serves as the active layer, there are rich p/n interfaces now in the film and almost all photogenerated excitons can diffuse to their nearby polymer:fullerene interfaces and dissociate: holes are then transported in p-type materials (called donor) and electrons are transported in n-type materials (called acceptor)9.
In this paper employing a high-performance donor PThBDTP23, we fabricated ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PThBDTP:PC71BM (phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester)/Al based solar cells with three different surface treatments for the blend film: 1) directly deposit Al cathode on the film (the Al device).
q is the elementary charge, Eg is the energy gap, σn (σp) is the width of Gaussian density-of-states for the acceptor fullerene (donor polymer) (σ ≈ 100 meV at room temperature2425), Nn (Np) is the effective conduction band (valence band) density-of-states, n (p) is the free electron (hole) concentration.
Here Vbi is built-in potential, Φc is cathode work function, Δ is the interface potential drop, and EFp is the hole Fermi level of the donor material.
Moreover, the photoinduced charge separation process between the synthesized donor and acceptor PC61BM was evaluated by the fluorescence quenching experiment, revealing that the donor material BDPP-1 possessed efficient photoinduced charge separation performance.
These detailed investigations on the structure-property relationship of the novel star-shaped molecule revealed that BDPP-1 is a prospective candidate as a donor material for organic photovoltaic materials.The new star-shaped molecule BDPP-1 with a 1,3,5-triethynylbenzene core and diketopyrrolopyrrole arms exhibited excellent solubility, high thermal stability, broad and strong absorption, narrow band gap and appropriate molecular levels.
Moreover, the enlarged π-conjugated structure can bring forth a strong propensity for stacking into 1D columns as the preferred charge transporting pathway, which supports to improve the carrier mobilities of the functional materials.9–11 More recently, the star-shaped small molecules have also attracted considerable attention as donor/acceptor materials in solution-processed bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) in terms of their intriguing properties such as high solution processability, high thermal stability, good absorption coefficient, high mobility, narrow band gap as well as strong and broad absorption in the visible region.12–15 So far, the reported star-shaped molecules are frequently developed through tanglesome synthetic methodologies from several well-known cores such as phenylene16–18 triphenylamine19–21 and truxene.22,23 Therefore, more efforts should be focused on the seeking of new cores and straightforward synthetic methodologies to develop advanced star-shaped molecular materials for the time being.
Diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as a promising acceptor unit has received a great deal of attention for optoelectronic applications due to its easy and large-scale preparation, unique π-conjugated system, excellent coplanarity, strong and broad absorption, high fluorescence quantum, exceptional stability and modification of N-alkyl chains.24–28 For the time being, DPP based compounds have got huge fame attributed to their excellent photophysical properties such as high molar extinction coefficient, high thermal and photo stability.
The investigated results indicate that the synthesized star-shaped small molecule BDPP-1 has a great potential as a donor material for organic photovoltaic applications.
The donor material possesses good solubility in common organic solvents such as THF, diether, dichloromethane, chloroform and dichlorobenzene due to the N-alkyl-substituted DPP as a segment of the molecular backbone, which allows it to be easily purified by column chromatography and also meets the requirement for fabrication of solution-processed OPV device.
The absorption peak in lower wavelength region (around 360 nm) is ascribed to the π–π* transition of the conjugated backbone, whereas the lower energy absorption band peaking at 586 nm can be attributed to intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) transition between donor and acceptor unit of the star-shaped OSMs.43 In solid state, the main absorption peaks became broader and showed an ICT peak around 614 nm, which is red shifted by 28 nm as compared to that in solution.
Optical spectral red shifts in the absorption and fluorescence are expected in polar solvents because of the stabilization of the ICT occurring between the terminal donor–acceptor groups.
As BDPP-1 contains an electron donorgroup and an acceptor group, a charge transfer (CT) probably happen in the excited state from the electron-donor moiety to the electron-acceptor moiety.
To evaluate the photoinduced charge separation process between donor and acceptor, the fluorescence quenching experiment was performed with the synthesized donor material BDPP-1 and PC61BM, as shown in Fig.
The fluorescence intensity of BDPP-1 gradually decreased with the increasing concentration of PC61BM, indicating an efficient charge separation process between the synthesized donor and acceptor PC61BM.
Among the solar cell materials, P3HT and PC61BM are classical donor and acceptor materials.
Compared with donor material P3HT,52 our designed small molecule BDPP-1 shows obvious advantages such as the higher value of KSV, providing the more efficient charge separation process, as well as the broader absorption band in the solution and film state (Table 2).
Thus, the synthesized star-shaped small molecule BDPP-1 is the good candidate for the donor material in the OPV field.
S6b,† the electronic densities of HOMO are mainly distributed the central donor core and two terminal DPP groups, whereas those of LUMO are predominantly located on the two terminal DPP groups, revealing an effective ICT transition from the electron-donating segment to the electron-withdrawing unit.
These excellent thermal, optical, electrochemical properties and photoinduced charge separation performance show especial promise as a new donor material for potential applications in small molecule organic solar cells.
This can also be expected due to the weaker bonding between THF and Pb ions because of the low donor number (DN) of THF (low-DN solvents coordinate less strongly with Pb2+)28 and can explain that precursor complexes are not able to dissolve in pure THF (see Supplementary Fig. 11).
Therefore, the configuration of AtD does not follow the commonly employed “weak donor/strong acceptor” design in which the donor unit is a main contributor to the HOMO, while the acceptor unit (DTDPP is among the common examples) to the LUMO.24 Rather, the central DTDPP group in AtD serves as a primary dye unit ensuring high light absorptivity, while the two At units serve as a modulator of the frontier-orbital energy levels through π-extension.
Like dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), QDSSCs are mainly constituted by three parts: the electron acceptor, the electrolyte, and the counter electrode (CE).
In this paper, we present for the first time LIFT printing as a method to fabricate silver (Ag) nanoparticle (np) grids for the development of indium tin oxide (ITO)-free inverted PM6:Y6 nonfullerene acceptor organic photovoltaics (OPVs).
In the past few years, organic photovoltaics (OPVs) have achieved tremendous power conversion efficiency improvements mainly due to the emergence of n-type organic semiconductor nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs).
In comparison to the traditional fullerene acceptors, the NFAs have lower cost due to simpler synthetic methods, suitable band gap that increases the active-layer absorption, and tunable energy levels that favor the open-circuit voltage.1,2 Organic solar cells based on NFA have boosted the OPVs’ power conversion efficiency from approximately 10 to over 17%,3−6 while a significant improvement in device stability has been also reported in the literature.7−9 Possibilities of the new organic electronic material systems in large-scale OPV manufacturing have also been recently investigated, and successful upscaling modules have been fabricated.10,11 Aiming toward commercialization, the widely used transparent indium tin oxide (ITO) conductive electrode increases the overall cost, while its brittleness makes it incompatible to flexible optoelectronics and large-scale roll-to-roll manufacturing.
to avoid nozzle clogging and control flow.19 On the other hand, the laser-induced forward transfer (LIFT) digital printing technique provides more flexibility on the donor ink properties.20 LIFT printing was introduced by Bohandy and his co-workers,21 and its working principle usually employs a pulsed laser source that provides the energy to a laser transparent substrate that can be coated with a solid, paste, or liquid donor layer, which absorbs the laser energy and transfers the material toward the acceptor substrate.
In case of liquid donors, the absorption of pulsed laser results in the formation of a high-pressure bubble, which expands and creates a stable jet of the donor material.
The highly efficient binary organic NFA-based semiconductor material system consisting of the PBDB-T-2F (PM6) polymer donor and the BTP-4F (Y6) as the nonfullerene acceptor is used as an active layer in the inverted OPV device structure.41 The presented study is focused on the Ag np grids as an ITO-free bottom electrode, with the aim to identify the optimized processing conditions and device structure engineering to achieve highly efficient LIFT-printed inverted ITO-free OPVs.
A nanosecond (ns) pulsed laser at 532 nm and high repetition rate (up to 500 kHz) create a laser beam that is guided through mirrors and lenses toward a galvanometric set of two mirrors (galvo) with configurable speed, thus enabling the two-dimensional scanning of a quartz donor that is coated with a Ag np ink (Sicrys I70DB-H72_E32) at the liquid phase developed by PV Nano Cell.
Utilizing a blade coater, the quartz donor is coated with the aforementioned ink resulting in a 12–14 μm thickness film.
Therefore, the donor is irradiated with a laser fluence of 125 mJ/cm2 and beam size of 35 μm, resulting in a dimensionally controlled printed droplet.
Associating a galvo speed of 0.45 m/s with a laser repetition rate of 10 kHz and keeping the distance between donor and receiver at 50 μm, a drop on demand deposition was achieved, succeeding in the formation of smooth lines with no bulging effects and discontinuities.
For the development of ITO-free inverted OPVs, LIFT-printed and embedded Ag np grids were implemented with the approach of using a PEDOT:PSS/ZnO electron selective contact for the bottom electrode of the OPV device structure, as was previously reported.42 As also indicated in more details above, for the completion of inverted OPV devices, PM6 as a polymer donor and Y6 as a nonfullerene molecular acceptor were used within the active layer, with thermally evaporated MoO3 as the hole transporting layer and Ag as the top contact.
LIFT-printing and laser-sintering techniques were employed to develop Ag metal nanoparticle grids as an alternative to the bottom ITO electrode in inverted structure nonfullerene acceptor PM6:Y6 based OPVs.
The PM6 polymer donor and the BTP-4F (Y6) nonfullerene acceptor were purchased from Solarmer Energy, Inc. For the embedding and flattening of laser-printed Ag np grids, the reverse nanoimprinting transfer procedure was applied12 using Ormocomp and Ormoprime resins purchased from Micro Resist Technology.
Herein, by utilizing the amphiphobic nature and temperature-dependent miscibility of fluorous solvent, hot fluorous solvent soaking method is developed to optimize the morphology with various donor/acceptor combinations including polymer/small-molecule, all-polymer and all-small-molecule systems.
Since the solution-processing fabrication is too fast for organic molecules to assemble into the way as expected, additional post-treatments are usually needed by the employment of heat or solvent as driving force to reorganize donor and acceptor molecules9,18,19.
HFSS treatment is applicable in different donor-acceptor combinations including polymer/small-molecule, all-polymer and all-small molecule systems, verifying the generality of HFSS for morphology optimization.
This outstanding improvement can be explained by the idea that PFT is miscible with CF/CN residue at any temperature, and the mixed solvent promotes the reorganization of donor and acceptor molecules due to better solubility.
To investigate the universality of HFSS, this method is also utilized in other donor/acceptor combinations (Supplementary Fig. 21).
Considering the requirements of temperature and solubility, e.g., PFT should be processed below 100 °C due to its boiling point and PFT is not applicable with some donor/acceptor combinations containing small molecule due to its good solubility, the fluorous solvent was meticulously chosen in various donor/acceptor combinations.
By replacing the acceptor with IT4F, TA seems to be less useful in PM6:IT4F system and the blend films without/with TA show similar RMS and 1.44 and 1.47 nm, respectively (Supplementary Fig. 23).
Another widely used donor/acceptor combination PTB7-Th:IEICO-4F was also studied.
24).Table 2The photovoltaic parameters of optimal devices based on various donor/acceptor combinations under the illumination of AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2.Active layerPost-treatmentsVoc (V)Jsc (mA cm−2)FF (%)PCE (%)PM6:IT4FaPristine0.8619.9374.712.81TA (100 °C for 5 min)0.8519.8276.012.81PFT (80 °C for 0.75 min)0.8619.9176.513.10PTB7-Th:IEICO-4FbPristine0.7123.7566.611.22TA (100 °C for 5 min)0.7023.8467.711.29PFT (70 °C for 0.5 min)0.7124.1571.312.23P3HT:o-IDTBRcPristine0.7610.4545.43.60TA (110 °C for 10 min)0.7513.2460.05.96PFD (110 °C for 3 min)0.7513.2561.96.15P3HT:o-IDTBRdPristine0.6910.4351.43.67TA (120 °C for 10 min)0.7412.1167.56.05PFD (110 °C for 1 min)0.7312.6171.36.56BTR-Cl:Y6ePristine0.934.5222.80.96TA (120 °C for 5 min)0.8523.1367.913.36PFD (120 °C for 2 min)0.8524.1568.113.98PTzBi-Si:N2200fPristine0.8914.2156.97.20TA (120 °C for 5 min)0.8814.9269.49.11PFD (120 °C for 1 min)0.8814.4973.79.40aCF:DIO (99.5:0.05, v/v) as processing solvent.bCF:CN (96.5:3.5, v/v) as processing solvent.cCF:CN (99.5:0.05, v/v) as processing solvent.dChlorobenzene as processing solvent.eCF as processing solvent.f2-Methyltetrahydrofuran as processing solvent.
The photovoltaic parameters of optimal devices based on various donor/acceptor combinations under the illumination of AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2.
To tap the potential of HFSS, this methodology is utilized in other donor/acceptor combinations whose pristine films have poor morphology.
Among polymer donors, P3HT exhibits potential advantages for commercial applications due to its low-cost and facile manufacture, but the morphology optimization of devices based on P3HT is challenging and usually requires high-temperature and long-time TA.
Besides the combinations of polymer donor and small-molecule acceptor, all-polymer and all-small-molecule were also employed to verify the effectiveness of HFSS.
This mixed solvent diffuses around the active layer, and then donor and acceptor molecules are selectively eroded and moved due to the tiny amount of CF/CN which has good solubility to organic semiconductor.
We used the commercially available P3HT [Poly(3-hexylthiophene)] and PC61BM (Phenyl-C61-Butyric acid Methyl ester) photovoltaic materials as donor and acceptor, respectively.
P3HT [Poly(3-hexylthiophene)] and PC61BM (Phenyl-C61-Butyric acid Methyl ester) are the most commonly used donor and acceptor materials for OPV, respectively.
recently conducted a study with ultrafast time-resolved spectroscopy and found that a post-annealed device also had carriers with a longer lifetime in the acceptor HOMO level, which consequently produces a larger short circuit current density (Jsc)19 than that obtained with untreated devices.
The active layer was produced using a mixture of a donor [poly(3-hexythiophene), P3HT, purchased from Reike Materials Inc.] and an acceptor [phenyl[6,6]C61 butyric acid methyl ester, PC61BM, purchased from One Material Inc.].
The dipole moments, frontier molecular orbital energies, absorption spectra, exciton binding energy (Eb), singlet–triplet energy gap (ΔEST), and electrostatic potential (ESP) of these molecules, and the estimated open circuit voltages (VOCs) of the OSCs with PC71BM as acceptor are presented.
Based on these results, overall, DRCN5T2Cl, DRCN5T4F, and DRCN5T6F may be promising donors.
Compared to polymer donors, small molecule donors possess several advantages such as easy purification, well-defined structures, and negligible batch-to-batch inconsistency.
Specifically, Chen and his co-workers have synthesized DRCN7T, a linear A-D-A (A: acceptor; D: donor) type of molecule with septithiophenes as a skeleton and 2-(1,1-dicyanomethylene) rhodanine as two end groups, and the organic solar cell (OSC) based on this synthesis has power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 9.3% [6]; later they reported a series of A-D-A molecules with different lengths of skeleton and the same end groups, namely DRCNnT (n = 4~9), and they found that the conjugation length and spatial symmetry greatly affect molecular packing, phase separation, molecular orbital energy levels, and charge carrier mobility [7].
The most striking finding is that the OSC with DRCN5T (Figure 1) as a donor and PC71BM as a acceptor achieves the PCE of 10.1%.
The OSC with chlorinated PvBDT-Cl showed higher photovoltaic performances (PCE = 8.23%) than that with fluorinated PvBDT-F. Lu’s group [16] chlorinated the original BTR donor molecule, which possessed strong intermolecular interaction, low-lying molecular energy levels, and a strong stacking tendency of edge-on orientation.
Because of the different molecular packing orientations and different liquid crystalline properties between donor and acceptor, an appropriate morphology was achieved in the BTR-Cl:Y6 system, leading to a high PCE of 13.6% for all-small-molecule OSCs.
Frequently, fluorine (F) and chlorine (Cl) atoms are introduced in donors to adjust the electronic structure and intermolecular interactions to obtain more efficient donors.
Beaujuge’s group [17] reported a bulk-heterojunction solar cell with VOC over 1.10 V with di-fluorinated DRCN5T as a donor and PC71BM as an acceptor.
Lu’s group [18] studied the isomeric effect of fluorine substitution on the performance of solar cells based on di-fluorinated DRCN5T (donor):IDIC4F (acceptor).
We utilize density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TDDFT) to study how different halogen substitutions influence opto-electronical properties such as dipole moments, frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs), energy gap, UV–Vis spectra, and VOCs (with PC71BM as acceptor), exciton binding energy, ΔEST, and ESP of these molecules.
(2)To find new promising donors (if possible) based on DRCN5T.
To find new promising donors (if possible) based on DRCN5T.
The PCE of the OSC with IDIC-4F as an acceptor and DRCN5T2F as donor was increased to 9.36% (the PCE of the OSC based on DRCN5T/IDIC-4F is 8.02%) [18].
to calculate VOCS of OSCs based on these new molecules with PC71BM as acceptor [26].
Table 2 shows the calculated VOC values of the OSCs with these new molecules as donors (utilizing Equation (10)).
Based on these results, DRCN5T2Cl molecule may be a potential donor material due to its small exciton binding energy.
Additionally, as the ESP difference between the donor and the acceptor becomes bigger, the interaction between them increases [32].
On the other hand, the averaged ESPs of DRCN5T2F, DRCN5T4F, DRCN5T6F, DRCN5T2Cl, DRCN5T4Cl, and DRCN5T2Br are higher than that of DRCN5T (195 meV), indicating that they are potential donors.
Based on all the above results, the tetrafluoro substitution donor (DRCN5T4F) is the ideal donor among the difluoro, tetrafluoro, and hexafluoro substitution donors.
We roughly predicted open circuit voltages of OSCs with PC71BM as an acceptor by using the following empirical equation [26]: (10)VOC=(1/e)(|EHOMODonor|−|ELUMOPCBM|)−0.3 where e is the electron charge; EHOMODonor means the energy of HOMO of donor; ELUMOPCBM denotes the energy of LUMO of acceptor PC71BM.
The following equation was used to calculate the inner reorganization energy [28,48]: (12) λi, h=[E0(D+)−E0(D0)]+[E+(D0)−E+(D+)]  where  λi, h is the inner reorganization energy; E0(D+) is the total energy of neutral donor in the optimized geometry of cation; E0(D0) represents the total energy of neutral donor in the optimized geometry of neutral molecule; E+(D0) denotes energy of positive donor in the optimized geometry of neutral molecule; E+(D+) is energy of positive donor in the optimized geometry of cation.
DRCN5T2Cl exhibits the smallest value of Eb, indicating that it may be a potential donor material.
DRCN5T4F may be the ideal donor among the difluoro, tetrafluoro, and hexafluoro substitutions donors based on the moderate averaged ESP.
In summary, we may conclude that DRCN5T2Cl, DRCN5T4F, and DRCN5T6F have the potential to be good donors.
Our work may provide a guideline for future halogenation modification of DRCN5T and lay the foundations for the development of oligothiophene-based donors.
The BA having a potential hydrogen donor, which exists on the surface and/or grain boundaries, is vulnerable to H2O‐induced degradation initiators, resulting in the faster hydration followed by the irreversible degradation of perovskites.
To explore the effect of the introduction of heteroatoms on the properties of porphyrin materials, a new porphyrin-based derivative small-molecule donor named as PorTT-T was designed and synthesized based on alkyl-thieno[3,2-b]thiophene(TT)-substituted porphyrins.
The linker bridge and end groups of PorTT-T were the same as those of XLP-II small-molecule donor materials, while the side-chain attached to the core of thieno[3,2-b]thiophene(TT)-substituted porphyrin was different.
There are two classical structures for the molecular design of small molecule donor materials: acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) [15,16,17,18] and donor-acceptor-donor (D-A-D) [19,20,21].
Among these, the A-D-A type of donor material is more popular due to the availability of a wider variety of structures.
For example, different donor units can be used as the core, the acceptor units acting as terminal groups can be varied, and at the same time, some conjugated units can be introduced between the acceptor units as linker bridges to form small molecules with the acceptor--π-donor--π-acceptor (A-π-D-π-A) type of structure.
These results demonstrated that the use of alkylthio chain as the side group instead of the alkyl chain side group can effectively improve the PCE of porphyrin-based derivatives acting as donor materials for small-molecule OPVs.
To enhance the device performance, we chose the use of a donor/acceptor mass ratio of 1:1.2 for the bulk blend films.
For a fair comparison with the previously investigated donor material (XLP-II), we used the ITO/PEDOT:PSS/D:A/poly[(9,9-bis(3′-((N,N-dimethyl)-N-ethylammonium)- propyl)-2,7-fluorene)-alt-2,7-fluorene)-alt-2,7-(9,9-dioctylfluorene)]dibromide (PFN-Br)/Al device architecture.
The results also show that the introduction of the S atom in the side chain has a beneficial effect on the short-circuit current density of the donor materials.
The donor:PC71BM blend films (surface area: 2 × 2 μm2) were cast from chloroform solution.
The activity layer of the donor:PC71BM (ratio fixed as 1:1.2 by weight) solution was prepared, where the solvent was the mixture solvent of chlorobenzene (CB, 8 mg/mL) and pyridine (3 vol%).
The AL is based on commercial donor PBDD4T-2F low bandgap polymer purchased from Ossila (Sheffield, UK) (138 Kg/mol, PDI = 2.6) and fullerene acceptor PC70BM from Solarmer (El Monte, CA, USA) (purity 99%).
As well known in OPV devices optimization, the optimal D/PC70BM ratio depends mainly on the device architectures, i.e., direct (glass/anode/HTL/AL/ETL/cathode) or inverse (glass/cathode/ETL/AL/HTL/anode) configurations and the processing conditions of the AL that control the size distribution of the donor/acceptor phases between anode and cathode [43,44].
Ideally, the valence band maximum (VBM) must be below the Fermi level of the anode (ITO) and above the HOMO level of the donor material, and the conduction band minimum (CBM) of the HTL is required to be above the LUMO level of the donor material, respectively.
These photoactive polymers undergo a phase separation phenomena, leading to a vertical gradient of the acceptor and donor material, significantly impacting the photogeneration process, charge transport, and carrier recombination [66], thus, jeopardizing the short-circuit current.
The molecular design of a wide-bandgap polymer donor is critical to achieve high-performance organic photovoltaic devices.
Herein, a new dibenzo-fused quinoxalineimide (BPQI) is successfully synthesized as an electron-deficient building block to construct donor–acceptor (D–A)-type polymers, namely P(BPQI-BDT) and P(BPQI-BDTT), using benzodithiophene and its derivative, which bears different side chains, as the copolymerization units.
These two polymers are used as a donor, and the narrow bandgap (2,20-((2Z,20Z)-((12,13-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-3,9-diundecyl-12,13-dihydro-[1,2,5]thiadiazolo [3,4-e]thieno[2,″30′:4′,50]thieno[20,30:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2g]thieno[20,30:4,5]thieno[3,2-b]indole-2,10 diyl)bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene))dimalononitrile) Y6 is used as an acceptor to fabricate bulk heterojunction polymer solar cell devices.
This study demonstrates that dibenzo-fused quinoxalineimide is a promising building block for developing wide-bandgap polymer donors.
The remarkable progress in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) mainly depends on the development of new polymer donors and non-fullerene small molecule electron acceptors (NFSMEAs) [10,11,12,13,14,15].
Recently, various narrow-bandgap NFSMEAs have been designed and have achieved excellent performances in OPVs when paired with wide-bandgap polymer donors.
Compared to NFSMEAs, the development of wide-bandgap (WBG) polymer donors is still limited; only a few donor–acceptor (D–A)-type WBG polymer donors have been reported, such as PM6 and D18 [19,20,21].
Therefore, it is imperative to design novel WBG polymer donors, which absorb the solar energy in the wavelength range of 300–650 nm to further improve the OPV’s performances [22,23,24,25].
Specially, the polymer donors of organic solar cells are often used as the hole transport layers in the perovskite solar cells due to their extraordinary p-type characteristics.
The ideal WBG polymer donors can be synthesized following the donor–acceptor strategy, where benzodithiophene (BDT) [28,29,30] and its derivatives are usually used as the donor units, and some electron-deficient moieties, such as quinoxaline [31,32,33], benzothiadiazole, benzotriazole, and imide, are used as the acceptor co-units [34,35,36].
In addition to these acceptor units, quinoxaline-based polymers have some characteristics that are useful for constructing WBG polymer donors: (1) quinoxaline derivatives possess strong electron-withdrawing properties that can adjust the energy levels; (2) the quinoxaline moiety can be easily modified by introducing sidechains and other functional groups to modulate the physical, chemical, and electronic properties; and (3) quinoxaline has a rigid and large planar structure that favors close π-π stacking.
[12], reported a low cost quinoxaline-based D–A-type polymer donor, PTQ10, that contains an alkoxy-substituted difluoro quinoxaline acceptor unit and thiophene donor unit on the backbone; when blended with IDIC, a PCE value of 12.7% was achieved for PSCs.
Recently, Hou and coworkers reported a WBG polymer donor, PBQx-TCl, based on the thiophene-fused quinoxaline acceptor unit DTQx; the device based on PBQx-TCl:BTP-eC9 exhibited a PCE of 16.0% [14].
Therefore, quinoxaline is a promising building block for constructing high-performance WBG polymer donors in OPVs.
By using BDT as the copolymerization unit with BPQI, two new polymer donors, P(BPQI-BDT) and P(BPQI-BDTT), were synthesized.
Both polymer donors possess wide bandgaps and deep highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels, due to the strong electron-withdrawing ability of the BPQI moiety, and have a good compatibility with the Y6 acceptor.
The EHOMO/ELUMO of both polymers match well with acceptor Y6, indicating that these two polymers can be used as polymer donor in PSCs.
Y6 was chosen as the acceptor due to its excellent performance in the field of OSCs, and the device architecture is shown in Figure 3a.
The increased VOC for the P(BPQI-BDTT)-based PSC is due to the deep-positioned HOMO energy level, since the VOC is determined by the HOMO of a donor’s and the LUMO of an acceptor’s energy offset.
In summary, a new dibenzo-fused quinoxalineimide (BPQI) is successfully synthesized as an electron-deficient building block to construct donor–acceptor (D–A)-type polymers, namely P(BPQI-BDT) and P(BPQI-BDTT).
These two polymers were used as donor materials for polymer solar cells.
These results demonstrate that BPQI is a promising building block for developing a wide-bandgap polymer donor in OPVs.
In addition, the acceptor BPQI can also be applied to other organic opto-electronic devices, such as organic field effect transistors (OFET) and perovskite solar cells (PSCs), due to its large conjugated backbone and electron-deficient characteristics.
For instance, chlorophyll derivatives can yield PCEs up to 2.1%, and copolymers produced with isoindigo as an electron-deficient unit generate high PCEs up to 8%, respectively, when combined with fullerene C70 based electron acceptors in the OSC active layers.
More recently, the standard fullerene-based electron acceptors have been replaced with small molecule acceptors in the active layers, thus, further improving the PCE of OSCs over 14% [6].
On the other hand, in OSCs, the electron donor and the electron acceptor carry out light harvesting and charge transport functions, making charge mobility in the organic semiconductors a critical factor to ensure efficient OSCs operation (Figure 1).
BHJ solar cells are based on electron donor and electron acceptor materials which are co-deposited by thermal evaporation or solution-process to form active layers with donor-rich and acceptor-rich domains.
Active layers can also be produced through a sequential deposition of electron donor and electron acceptor materials.
When a photon is absorbed by the donor, the formed exciton diffuses to a donor/acceptor interface where an electron from the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the donor is transferred to the LUMO of the acceptor, thus, generating electron-hole pairs.
Similarly, when the photon is absorbed by the acceptor, once the exciton reaches a donor/acceptor interface, an electron is transferred from the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor to the HOMO of the acceptor.
To ensure that charges are generated efficiently, the continuous donor or acceptor domains should be smaller than the exciton diffusion length which is typically in the order of a few tenths of nm.
Once the charges are generated, holes and electrons will percolate through donor and acceptor phases to the anode and cathode, respectively.
Finally, in the last section of this review, an alternating strategy, namely, natural products as light-harvesting interlayers will be presented which demonstrates that energy transfer from natural systems can be efficiently employed to improve the short-circuit current density (Jsc) of OSCs based on conjugated polymer electron donors.
Due to the low hole mobilities of fucoxanthin and bCar, low donor:acceptor ratios (1:4) were necessary to produce relatively efficient fucoxanthin:PC61BM and bCar:PC61BM BHJ–OSCs.
On the other hand, as Lyc demonstrated a hole mobility three orders of magnitude higher than the other two carotenoids, a 1:1 donor:acceptor ratio was used in the Lyc:PC61BM devices.
As expected, a donor with a low-lying HOMO, such as fucoxanthin, yields high Voc values of 0.70 V when combined with PC61BM thanks to the enlarged gap between the LUMO of the acceptor (−3.9 eV) and the HOMO of the donor.
By replacing PC61BM with ICBA in Lyc-based OSCs, the higher LUMO of ICBA produced a Voc of 0.64 V. Although the Voc of fucoxanthin and bCar devices had similar values to those prepared with synthetic electron donors such as P3HT [21], their low Jsc and fill factors (FFs) resulted in PCEs around 0.15%.
This implies that they can be used as both electron donor and electron acceptor in BHJ–OSCs.
In fact, bacteriochlorophyll c (BChlc, extracted from Chlorobiumtepidum) and chlorophyll a (Chla, extracted from algae) have been employed as electron acceptor and electron donor combined in regular architecture OSC active layers with P3HT and PC61BM, respectively [23,24].
Although Lyc and BChls have similar HOMO levels around –4.8 eV [20,25], OSCs employing Lyc and BChlc as electron donors with PC61BM as acceptor produced PCEs of 0.33% and 0.062%, respectively.
Nevertheless, the BChlc:PC61BM devices clearly indicated that BChls can be employed in working OSCs as electron donor.
Assuming that efficient charge separation occurs at the donor/acceptor interface, such behavior also implies that electron mobility in the Chla deposited on top of P3HT is fairly low.
When employed as electron acceptors with Lyc [22], or Copper phthalocyanine (CuPc) [33], Chl-D3 and Chl-D4 exhibited low photovoltaic performances in OSCs with PCEs below 0.1% (Figure 6b).
Even though their electron mobilities are higher than their hole mobilities, efficient bilayer OSCs with 8 nm-thick Chl-D3 or Chl-D4 electron donors topped with a 40 nm-thick C70 layer were produced.
Chl-D4:C70 OSCs demonstrated a Jsc of 5.65 mA/cm2, a Voc of 0.71 V, and an FF of 53%, thus, producing a PCE of 2.1% and clearly demonstrating that Chl derivatives can act as efficient electron donors in thin bilayer OSCs.
Although their initial study suggested that Chl derivatives cannot be used as efficient electron acceptors in OSCs, Duan et al.
recently fabricated inverted device architectures (ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoO3/Ag) in which both the electron donor and electron acceptor were Chl derivatives.
Unlike their previous attempts with metal-free Chl-derivatives, the electron acceptor in these devices was a Zn-based chelate (Chl-A).
Both these values were higher than the HOMO/LUMO levels of the electron donors (Chl-D1, Chl-D2, Chl-D3, and Chl-D4) in the inverted OSCs (Figure 7).
The following step involved a second exciton formed on the PSI simulator (electron donor, Chl-Ds) with the electron promoted to the LUMO of Chl-Ds through absorption and transferred to the HOMO of Chl-A.
Although this peculiar working mechanism would explain the high FFs obtained despite the higher HOMO level of the acceptor with respect to those of the donors, clear evidence (e.g., using time-resolved spectroscopy or photoluminescence quenching measurements) of such two-step operation is lacking in their study.
Electron-deficient building blocks can be combined with electron donor units to engineer the frontier orbitals energy levels and optical properties of small molecules and low bandgap copolymers, which has proven to be an efficient strategy to enhance the performances of OSCs [1,2,5,6,50].
Following this approach, a few research groups have put a great effort into the design of isoindigo-based materials attached to electron donors such as thiophene groups.
synthesized a small molecule with a central isoindigo unit bonded to a bithiophene on each side in a donor–acceptor–donor (D-A-D) configuration [40].
On the other hand, isoindigo or substituted indigos have been associated with various well-known electron donating units including anthracene, naphthalene, and thiophenes to synthesize electron donors for OSCs that produce PCEs below 5% [41,42,43,44,45].
The BHJ–OSCs prepared with PBDTT-TT-IID as the electron donor and PC71BM as the electron acceptor exhibited a Jsc of 14.4 mA/cm2, a Voc of 0.79 V, and an FF of 72%, thus, producing a PCE of 8.05%.
These promising results clearly indicate that isoindigos have a great potential for the synthesis of well-performing donor materials for BHJ–OSCs.
A maximum value of 10.88% was measured for the nano-bio hybrid interlayer devices, making them one of the top performing OSCs based on fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors.
When unmodified natural dyes, such as carotenoids or chlorophylls, are employed as an electron donor or electron acceptor in OSC active layers, the resulting cost-effective OSCs exhibit fairly low performances with PCEs generally below 0.5%.
When the chlorophyll-derivatives are used as electron donor combined with C70 as the acceptor, the resulting OSC PCEs can be enhanced up to 2.1%.
The electron deficient isoindigo can be employed as a building unit for alternating donor–acceptor type low bandgap copolymers with PCEs over 8% in BHJ–OSCs.
When natural dyes are used as extracted as electron donors in OSC active layers, functional devices can be fabricated, but they only yield fairly low PCEs with values below 1%.
The optimization of solution-processed organic bulk-heterojunction solar cells with the acceptor-substituted quinquethiophene DCV5T-Bu4 as donor in conjunction with PC61BM as acceptor is described.
Furthermore, atomic force microscopy investigations of the photoactive layer gave insight into the distribution of donor and acceptor within the blend.
The photoactive layer in BHJSCs is fabricated by simultaneous deposition of both, the electron donor (D) as a p-type and the electron acceptor (A) as n-type semiconducting material.
The field can be divided based on the type of donor material; polymer or oligomer/dye molecules.
Diketopyrrolopyrroles [4], oligothiophenes [5], merocyanines [6], phthalocyanines [7], and squarine dyes [8–9] have all been investigated as promising donor materials in efficient BHJSCs.
This efficiency was further increased to 5.1% upon replacement of the terminal DCV acceptors units with octyl cyanoacetate termini [13].
A further improvement to 6.1% was obtained by the use of an alkylated septithiophene that bears terminal rhodanine acceptor groups [13].
Through combination of the rhodanine acceptor with a benzodithiophene core unit, an additional increase in PCE to 8.1% was achieved [14–15].
To date, there have been many reports of polymer-based solar cells, which have demonstrated significant increases in efficiencies with the use of solvent additives [22–28], however, there are only a handful of examples in which oligomer-based donors were used [15–1729].
For the sequential introduction of the terminal DCV acceptor groups, pentamer 3 was formylated in both α-positions under Vilsmeier–Haack conditions to yield dialdehyde 4, which was subsequently converted into the target compound by a Knoevenagel condensation with malononitrile using β-alanine as catalyst.
As shown in Figure 2, the LUMO level of DCV5T-Bu4 (−3.7 eV) was found to be about 0.3 eV higher in energy than that of PC61BM (−4.0 eV), which should be sufficient to enable efficient electron transfer at the donor–acceptor interface in the photoactive blend layer [36–37].
Moreover, the deep HOMO level, which is typically observed for acceptor-substituted oligothiophenes [32], implied that the Voc of the solar cell device should be quite high.
Further information regarding the solar cell performance dependence on the donor–acceptor ratio is summarized in Table S2 in Supporting Information File 1.
Further optimization of the DCV5T-Bu4-based active layer was done by investigating the effect of replacing the PC61BM electron acceptor with PC71BM.
It is possible to assign the lighter regions (higher phase shift) to areas with mostly donor material (DCV5T-Bu4), whereas the darker regions (lower phase shift) contain mostly acceptor material (PCBM) [39].
The non-ideal phase separation of DCV5T-Bu4 and PC71BM spin-coated from ODCB can also be rationalized by using the relative maximum solublities of the donor and acceptor in the casting solvent.
The oligothiophene donor displays a maximum solubility in of 3 mg/mL versus the PC71BM acceptor that shows a value of 164 mg/mL (see Table 1).
We reason that it is this large difference in solubility of the electron donor and acceptor in ODCB that leads to a large phase separation and overall lower PCE (2.5 vs 3.0%) in the solar cell device containing PC71BM and PC61BM, respectively.
In their study they proposed that novel donor polymers should be tested in organic solar cells with fullerene derivatives that have a similar solubility in the used solvent [40].
It is well known that during vacuum deposition the evaporation rate and substrate temperature can be precisely controlled and may be optimized to create highly ordered domains of donor and acceptor material [41].
We have demonstrated that the acceptor-substituted quinquethiophene DCV5T-Bu4 can be applied in solution-processed bulk-heterojunction solar cells.
In BHJ solar cells, plasmonic NRs/NPs can be blended with the organic semiconductor donor and acceptor in the active layers.
Secondly, the nanostructures do not form continuous network and the charge transport between the nanometals and the acceptor semiconductor could be worse than in the continuous network of the electron acceptor material [88].
The authors attributed the increased fluorescence lifetime to the interaction between the comparatively long-lived triplet excitons of P3HT as the donor and the Au NPs as the acceptor.
However, it is possible to induce charge/energy transfer between the donor in the active layer and the nanometals in CTL.
In nonfullerene acceptor- (NFA-) based solar cells, the exciton splitting takes place at both domain interface and donor/acceptor mixture, which brings in the state of mixing phase into focus.
For morphology-dependent carrier kinetics, the spontaneous phase-separation in-between donor (D) and acceptor (A) molecules introduces D/A interfaces for splitting excitons and bicontinuous networks for transporting charge carriers to corresponding electrodes [8–10].
Recently, the emerging of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) has greatly improved the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPV.
Unlike fullerene derivatives, NFA usually mixes well with donor molecules to induce a large content of amorphous mixing domain in morphology, away from spinodal decomposition created nanostructure [18–20].
Here, PM6:Y6, as the model system, was used as the high-efficiency platform [24], and a small amount of ITIC-type acceptors was introduced to dope into the mixing region.
A large library of ternary blends was constructed where the morphology and electronic structure were dependent on the physical properties of the secondary acceptors.
It was found that the density of the electron filling states changed upon different secondary acceptors, resulting in different open-circuit voltage (VOC).
The secondary acceptor doping displayed a g-factor of ~20% in lamellae packing direction for Y6 molecules, meaning that the structure order was reduced for Y6, yet could still act as a suitable n-type transport media.
The close interaction of the secondary acceptor with PM6 and Y6 effectively changes the electronic properties of the mixing region, offering an effective optimization methodology in manipulating charge transfer and carrier diffusion.
 Figure 1(a) shows the chemical structure of the materials used in the study (PM6, Y6, and ITIC-type acceptors).
The energy level differences referenced to the major acceptor Y6, including ΔHOMO, ΔLUMO, and ΔEg, are summarized in Figure 1(d), which could be used as the key variables to assess the physical properties of the ternary blends.
Solar cells were fabricated to evaluate the performances of devices with different secondary acceptors using the forward device structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PM6:Y6:A/PFNDI-Br/Ag.
The donor to acceptor ratio was fixed at 1 : 1.2, and the ratio of Y6:A was kept at 1 : 0.2.
The low concentration of the secondary acceptors led to good mixing in the amorphous region, and their crystallization could be ignored.
The introduction of the secondary acceptors significantly influenced the device performances.
The device VOC showed a satisfying improvement due to the incorporation of a large-bandgap acceptor.
The VOC dependence on the bandgap of the secondary acceptors is shown in Figure 2(c), where the solid line is the linear fitting curve with the confidence zone marked in gray.
A proportional relationship is observed; thus, the secondary acceptor plays a critical role in thin film electronic structure.
The good miscibility between the acceptors (Figure S6) and the low concentration doping method shift the argument of device operation away from the parallel model, where each acceptor should form its own isolated transport phase without charge or energy transfer [25–27].
The modification of the mixing region by acceptor mixture leads to unexpected device behavior.
As shown in Figure 3(f), the small amount of secondary acceptor does not introduce energetic disorder, as the similar δ values are seen with the variation of ~2 meV.
The hole-transfer process was accessed by selectively exciting the acceptors using a pump laser of 750 nm.
Taking PM6:Y6:ITC6-IC for example (Figures 4(a) and 4(b)), clear bleaching peaks appear between 600 and 900 nm, which is similar to the TAS signal of Y6:ITC6-IC (gray dotted lines in Figure 4(b) and Figure S13), indicating these signals are from the acceptors.
Thus, hole-transfer from the acceptors to PM6 takes place.
The electron transfer from donor to acceptor was investigated using a 520 nm laser excitation (Figure S15 and Figure S16), and the electron transfer time (τET) was recorded with the results summarized in Table S5.
The correlation between charge-transfer time, energy levels referencing to Y6 (ΔLUMO/ΔHOMO, the energy level difference of the secondary acceptor comparing to that in Y6, which is summarized in Figure 1(d)), and device characteristics are shown in Figures 4(d)–4(f).
It is seen that the electron transfer time (τET) is correlated to ΔLUMO (Figure 4(d)), indicating lower energy dip in acceptors plays an important role in directing the kinetics of electron transfer.
The correlation between the hole-transfer time and ΔHOMO is poor (inset in Figure 4(d)), which is due to the fact that the 750 nm excitation can activate both acceptors and result in simultaneous hole-transfer to PM6.
The PM6 donor assumed a dominant face-on orientation, with a broad (100) reflection in the in-plane (IP) direction at 0.28 Å−1 and a pi-pi stacking peak in the out-of-plane (OOP) direction at 1.69 Å−1.
The ITIC-type acceptors show varied crystalline feature.
We then investigated the mixing morphology of the acceptor blends (Y6 : A = 1 : 0.2, corresponding fitting process are shown in Figure S23).
The Y6 lamella diffraction peaks in acceptor blends become less pronounced (Figure S24).
Thus, the second acceptor interacts with Y6 via the alkyl chain interaction, and the carrier hopping pathways are not significantly disturbed.
Thus, the Y6 polymer-like packing is disturbed upon introducing the second acceptors.
We then conducted a 75° line cut to analyze the ordering of the acceptor (021) diffraction, which is also the periodic structure induced by pi-pi interaction confirmed by single crystal [23], with results shown in Figure 5(c) and Figure S25, where Y6-1 and Y6-2 represent (021) and (111) peaks, respectively.
It is seen that the secondary acceptors could form a broad and weak diffraction signal with g-factor of ~30%, which is amorphous, and the crystallization of Y6 is also affected.
This effect can be understood that Y6 has the lowest bandgap, and the increased crystallization would reduce its concentrating in mixing zone, and thus, the higher bandgap secondary acceptor could thus play a more important role.
It is interesting to see that the highest VOC locates at the middle bottom; thus, choosing the suitable bandgap secondary acceptor while maintaining good local ordering is important in enhancing VOC.
In PM6:Y6:A blends, the secondary acceptor performs good contact with Y6 molecules in the amorphous matrix, affording new electronic states.
The ordering of Y6 molecules though disturbed by the secondary acceptors can still form ideal electron transport pathways, giving rise to a high FF.
The mixing domain is the ambipolar matrix that hosts donor/acceptor crystalline phase.
Thus, introducing extra component with favorable energy level and suitable intermolecular interaction can be a viable approach in optimizing the morphology and electronic structure of the blended thin film, which is demonstrated here by doping with the larger-bandgap acceptors.
Therefore, although Cui et al.32 obtained a PCE of 8.38% with a visible transparency of 25.7% using an ultralow-band-gap nonfullerene acceptor, the device was only transparent in the blue-green region of the visible spectrum.
Liu et al.33 developed a new electron-acceptor material that shows strong Near-infrared (NIR) absorption between 600 and 940 nm, and successfully applied it to transparent solar cells with blue-tinted transparency.
Zhang et al.77 demonstrated an ~9% neutral-color TSC by taking advantage of a NIR nonfullerene acceptor at a light transmittance of 20%.
A linked‐acceptor type conjugated polymer is designed and sythesized based on 4,8‐bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene (BDTT) and linked‐thieno[3,4‐c]pyrrole‐4,6‐dione (LTPD).
The PBDTT‐LTPD includes two TPD units in one repeating unit, which can enhance acceptor density in the polymer backbone and lower the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level.
It contains polymers or small molecule semiconductors as donors and soluble fullerene derivatives as acceptors.
Donor materials in the backbone, which consist of alternating electron‐rich donor (D) and electron‐deficient acceptor (A) groups, facilitate the adjustment of the material properties.6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Following a series of evolutions, the PCE of PSCs based on D–A‐type materials has increased to over 9% in the past two years.11, 12, 13, 14
Some groups have also employed random polymerization to use three or more different monomers, which generally induces uncertainty in material energy levels and complicates property control.20, 21, 22 By contrast, some research groups have also attempted to synthesize conjugated polymers that contain two donors or two acceptors in one repeating unit.
Adding up the acceptor units can effectively and simultaneously reduce the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels by increasing acceptor density in the polymer backbone.23, 24 A low HOMO level significantly increases the open‐circuit voltage (V oc) of the PSCs.
The strategy of linking two acceptors in one monomer and incorporating them into the polymer backbone was recently recognized for its effective tuning of energy levels, of charge transport properties, and of the absorption spectra of photovoltaic materials.25, 26, 27, 28
Thieno[3,4‐c]pyrrole‐4,6‐dione (TPD) has been widely applied in donor materials because of its strong electron‐withdrawing effect.
Thus far, TPD has acted as a good acceptor for polymers, and the PCEs of their devices have exceeded 8%.29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 In our previous work, 4,8‐Bis(5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)thiophen‐2‐yl)benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene (BDTT) and TPD were combined (Scheme  1 ).
The result demonstrated that this method can efficiently improve J sc value to 10.94 mA cm−2 but that it reduces the V oc slightly from 0.99 to 0.92 V.36 The addition of the electron‐rich thiophene unit increases donor density, which in turn lowers V oc value.
By contrast, Beaujuge and co‐workers reported that several high‐V oc polymers show low J sc and low PCE in BHJ PSCs.37 Additional research indicates that the inefficient transfer of holes from the fullerene to the polymer donor lowers internal quantum efficiencies and significantly reduces the device photocurrents and fill factors (FFs).38, 39, 40
Molecular structures of polymers with single and linked acceptors.
In the current work, a linked‐acceptor is introduced into the polymer backbone to increase acceptor density and the absorption coefficient simultaneously.
This twisting may also lower the HOMO level more than single acceptor polymers can.41, 42, 43 Thus, the theoretical calculation and experimental results demonstrate that the linked acceptors in the backbone can reduce HOMO level and increase the absorption coefficient considerably.
Moreover, J sc value is 14.32 mA cm−2, which is a significant improvement over that of the single acceptor polymer‐based devices we reported.
The donor and acceptor monomers were characterized further by 13C NMR spectra.
Theoretical calculation, UV–vis absorption, cyclic voltammetry (CV), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC, Supporting Information, Figure S4), space‐charge‐limited current (SCLC) measurements, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and grazing incidence wide‐angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) were conducted to verify the properties of this type of linked‐acceptor polymer.
Synthetic route for the linked‐acceptor type monomers and PBDTT‐LTPD.
To gain insight into the fundamentals of the subtle change in molecular architecture from a single acceptor to a linked‐acceptor, the differences between PBDTT‐TPD and PBDTT‐LTPD were calculated theoretically and compared.
As shown in Figure  2 , the HOMO and LUMO wave functions of the PBDTT‐LTPD tetramer were delocalized on both donor and acceptor units.
This HOMO level decreased because of the strengthened electron‐drawing capability of the linked‐acceptor monomer, which in turn was the result of the increase in acceptor density and of the backbone twisting caused by the substitute hexylthiophene bridge in the backbone.
This linked‐acceptor polymer is expected to exhibit a high V oc value in photovoltaic devices because of its low HOMO localization level.
PSCs were fabricated with conventional and inverted BHJ structure by employing PBDTT‐LTPD as a donor with chloroform solution.
To obtain detailed and convincing results, the devices based two different acceptor materials, namely, PC60BM and PC70BM, were compared with each other in conventional devices.
The V oc values of all of the devices can exceed 1 V. The optimized device that uses PC70BM as an acceptor can obtain a PCE of 7.59%, with a V oc of 1.00 V, J sc of 14.32 mA cm−2, and a FF of 52.0%.
The devices that employ PC60BM as an acceptor can also attain a high PCE of 7.27% and a high V oc of 1.02 V. Figure  4 a,b shows the best current density–voltage (J–V) curves and the external quantum efficiencies (EQE) of conventional devices (PBDTT‐LTPD is abbreviated as PL in these figures).
The high V oc values relative to those of PBDTT‐LTPD should be attributed to the low HOMO level caused by the linked‐acceptors that increased acceptor density and twisted the backbone.
In summary, a novel conjugated polymer PBDTT‐LTPD composed of a linked‐acceptor LTPD unit was characterized and subject to facile synthesis.
The introduction of the linked‐acceptor increases the electron‐withdrawing capability of the acceptor monomer and backbone twisting.
The linked‐acceptor also enhanced the absorption coefficient of the polymer more than the single acceptor did.
Moreover, this linked‐acceptor polymer reported higher J sc and PCE values than the single‐acceptor polymer did.
This strategy efficiently increases the V oc value of PSCs and may be used to design the donor materials for high‐performance PSCs in the future.
To optimize device performance, different acceptors (PC60BM or PC70BM), D/A weight ratios, and additive ratios (v/v) were applied during device fabrication.
Despite performance improvements of organic photovoltaics, the mechanism of photoinduced electron–hole separation at organic donor–acceptor interfaces remains poorly understood.
Specifically, the extent to which Coulombic interactions between the electron and hole directly after exciton dissociation at a donor:acceptor (D:A) interface limit photocurrent generation has remained controversial,2 because of inconclusive evidence from experimental and theoretical studies producing contradictory e–h separation models.3−8 There is extensive evidence from transient absorption and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopic studies for the existence of photogenerated e–h pairs that are spatially localized and subject to stronger Coulombic binding interaction which, once formed, can limit photocurrent generation.4,9−13 We refer herein to such states as bound interfacial charge-transfer (CT) states.
The presence of such CT states is evidenced by electric-field-dependent studies and pump–push transient studies indicating extra energy can assist in dissociating these intermediate CT states into separated e–h pairs.14−18 Some, but not all, transient studies have shown that the yield of separated e–h pairs increases with an increasing enthalpic offset between the photoexcited donor (or acceptor) singlet state and the nominal D:A charge separated state in series of chemically similar blends, suggesting that an increased offset may help photogenerated e–h pairs avoid prompt recombination at the D:A interface by overcoming their Coulombic binding energy.19−21 Furthermore, photoluminescence studies probing sub-band-gap CT transitions have demonstrated the existence of CT states with different degrees of an e–h pair separation radius, and hence, binding energy.22 However, this evidence for Coulombically bound interfacial CT states contrasts with studies which show that internal quantum efficiency in studied devices remains almost invariant down to energies far into the tail of CT states,5,6 assayed with sub-band-gap CT electroluminescence (EL) measurements, suggesting that photoexcitation of sub-band-gap transitions can result directly in efficient photocurrent generation.
D:A polymer: fullerene blends tend to contain mixed regions where acceptor molecules are dispersed within amorphous polymer domains as well as pure (possibly crystalline) domains of both acceptor and donor.27−32 The volume fractions adopted by each domain will depend on the tendency of each component to crystallize and the miscibilities of each component in each other as well as on the composition ratio.
A plausible reason is the smaller offset between donor singlet energy and nominal CT state energy for the SiIDT-2FBT:PC70BM blend than for PCDTBT:PCBM and the effect of this offset on the nature of the interfacial states.
The character (excitonic or CT) of the excited states is defined according to how much charge is transferred from the donor to acceptor; states with <0.1 electronic charge (e) transferred are defined to have an excitonic character (blue), states with 0.1–0.9 e transferred are called mixed states (green), and states with >0.9 e transferred are called CT states (red).
The lowest gap pure component (the donor) starts to absorb only above 2.2 eV in this model (Figure S8e).
(a, b) Two-dimensional microstructure where blue and red mark polymer and fullerene domains, respectively, for the limit of (a) completely mixed microstructure (50 vol % acceptor) and (b) structure with high fullerene content, mainly present as a large cluster.
(c, d) Simulated electroluminescence spectra as a function of acceptor volume fraction in the case of the LUMO energy offset of (c) 0.1 and (d) 0.7 eV.
States are distinguished according to how much charge is transferred from donor to acceptor as follows: excitonic: less than 0.1 e transferred (blue); mixed: between 0.1 and 0.9 e transferred (green); and charge transfer (CT): over 0.9 e transferred (red).
In the low-offset case, the lowest energy donor exciton and CT state are known to be close in energy and tend to mix; as a result, the lowest excited states calculated by the model are excitonic or mixed in character for both the most mixed microstructure (50 vol % of acceptor) and the most clustered structure (81 vol % of acceptor) (Figure 5e).
In the high-offset case, the majority of the low energy excited states are CT-like in character for all compositions, indicating efficient charge pair separation between donor and acceptor components.
Therefore, the accurate PL quantum yield (PLQY) can be a measure of exciton dissociation, possibly followed by exciton diffusion to a donor/acceptor interface [29,31].
The PLQY of the copolymer films was further reduced to ~0.004 upon blending with the PCBM acceptor, virtually independent of the block ratio of the copolymers, and the unusual block ratio dependence of the unannealed pristine films became much weaker, as shown in Figure 6.
These modular absorbers can be applied as donors in organic solar cells and have the ability to utilize a broad range of solar radiation if blended with suitable acceptors.
In order to allow for the compatibility and favorable organization of donor and acceptor in the absorber layer, we intend to optimize the structure of the SQ by varying the groups attached to the squaric acid core.
The derived SQs were additionally characterized in thin-film configuration using cyclic voltammetry and UV-VIS spectroscopy and then processed to prepare self-standing bulk heterojunction (BHJ) thin films in conjunction with fullerene-based electron acceptors, which were characterized via profilometry.
To obtain good performance with the OPVs, the electron donor absorbers are used in a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) configuration (maximizing the specific surface of the interface) with fullerene-based electron donors [6].
One of the most promising ways to boost the PCE of the OPV was found through the incorporation of non-fullerene and small molecule donors and acceptors, which exhibit high absorption spectra, resulting in high photocurrents [7,8], with PCEs above 18% in state-of-the-art solar cells [9,10,11], bringing them closer to the market.
SQ’s advantages, when considering applications as donor materials in OPVs, are high absorption coefficients, where bandwidths can be adjusted in the visible and NIR range, as well as high photochemical and thermal stability [21].
Thus, the main tasks of new SQ developments are to: (1) prepare SQs that individually show favorable properties, and (2) ensure that these SQs are compatible with target co-absorbers (acceptors), both in terms of chemical compatibility and in susceptibility for microstructural organization (such as J-aggregate and H-aggregate stacking).
It can be said that the BHJ configuration is most frequently used for OPV systems, as the donor/acceptor phase separation in the active layer can easily be optimized to match the diffusion lengths of charge carriers created upon exciton splitting [24].
For blending with donor photoabsorbers, fullerene-based acceptors were most frequently reported, among them the PC60BM and PC71BM compounds being the mainstream choice due to their high electron affinity, good matching of the HOMO/LUMO levels with squaraine-based materials, and their ability to cover the blue and green region of the absorption spectra (unlike squaraine-based materials), providing an overall much better utilization of the solar spectrum [23].
The donor/acceptor ratio in the BHJ has to be balanced in order to achieve efficient charge carrier extraction, as SQ derivatives have size-dependent absorption and hole mobility where aggregates and dimers show the poorest functional properties [26].
This research will lay a good foundation for further cost-effective synthesis strategies and provide an overview of the preliminary parameters that characterize a good small molecule donor.
Furthermore, future structural studies on novel squaraine compounds in model BHJ systems for PV applications are necessary as they contribute to a broader understanding of morphology and nanostructure of SQ-based BHJ layers, paving the way for the incorporation of SQ derivatives into non-model systems, such as non-fullerene small molecule acceptors or even interfacing these with nanostructured charge carrier transport layers.
The course of the optimization was performed for the purpose of blending the selected donor SQs with fullerene-based acceptors.
A number of reports where the PCBM-to-SQ ratio was investigated suggest that a 1:(x > 5) of SQ:PCBM is mostly favored as the PCBM matrix suppresses SQ aggregation, which consequently increases the overall functional properties of the BHJ, regardless of the lesser amount of donor material in the active layer [23,24,25,26].
Since compounds 4a, 5b, and 5c are quite similar in terms of the interaction with the acceptor material and solvent, we find that the film thickness and surface roughness are mainly functions of the solvent, PC71BM concentration, process conditions, and amount of, but not the type of, SQ material.
Regardless of the miscibility of these blended compounds, morphology and vertical phase separation are of great importance for the enhancement of small molecule donor organic solar cells, and control over these phenomena must be fully achieved to obtain maximum performance; however, here, we confirm that very fine morphology can be reproduced for all compounds, whereas rougher morphology (if necessary) can be achieved through post-process treatment, such as thermal treatment and solvent vapor annealing.
Bearing in mind their applicability in OPV, SQs were blended with fullerene acceptors, and the optimal ratios, processing solvents, and spin-coating deposition parameters were determined.
Finally, it was evident that there are several strategies available for upgrading the PCE of squaraine-based OPV devices, one of which is developing modular small molecule absorbers that are chemically and microstructurally compatible with the acceptor material in the absorber layer.
The progress of bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) polymer solar cells (PSCs) is closely related to the innovation of photoactive materials (donor and acceptor materials), interface engineering, and device optimization.
Photoactive materials are basically classified as p-type organic semiconductor donor (D) and an n-type organic semiconductor acceptor (A).
In the past two decades, fullerene derivatives are the dominant acceptors for high efficiency PSCs.
Encouragingly, the recent progresses of fused-ring based A-D-A type nonfullerene acceptors exhibit great potential in enhancing the photovoltaic performance of devices, driving the power conversion efficiency to over 13%.
Such kind of nonfullerene acceptors is usually based on indacenodithiophene (IDT) or its extending backbone core and end-caped with strong electron-withdrawing group.
Owing to the strong push-pulling effects, the acceptors possess strong absorption in the visible-NIR region and low-lying HOMO (highest occupied molecular orbital) level, which can realize both high open-circuit voltage and short-circuit current density of the devices.
Moreover, the photo-electronic and aggregative properties of the acceptors can be flexibly manipulated via structural design.
Many strategies have been successfully employed to tune the energy levels, absorption features, and aggregation properties of the fused-ring based acceptors.
In this review, we will summarize the recent progress in developing highly efficient fused-ring based nonfullerene acceptors.
It is envisioned that an analysis of the relationship between molecular structures and photovoltaic properties would contribute to a better understanding of this kind of acceptors for high-efficiency PSCs.
The progress of PSCs is closely related to the innovation of photoactive materials (donor and acceptor materials) (He and Li, 2011; Li, 2013; Cui et al., 2014, 2016; Ye et al., 2014; Lu et al., 2015; Cui and Wong, 2016; Cui Y. et al., 2017; Hu et al., 2017; Lopez et al., 2017; Osaka and Takimiya, 2017; Zou et al., 2017; Gupta et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018; Sun et al., 2018), interface engineering (He et al., 2012; Duan et al., 2013; Chueh et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2015; Chen et al., 2016; Street, 2016), and device optimization (Ameri et al., 2009, 2013; Meillaud et al., 2015; Zhao et al., 2018).
As the key component, photoactive materials are basically classified as a p-type organic semiconductor donor (D) and an n-type organic semiconductor acceptor (A).
Due to the unique advantages of strong electron-accepting and high electron-transport capabilities, fullerene derivatives were predominately used as the acceptor in PSCs in the past two decades, driving the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of PSCs to 11–12% (Liu et al., 2014; Zhao J. et al., 2016).
Nevertheless, fullerenes based acceptors show critical shortcomings of weak absorption and limited structural modification, hindering further improve photovoltaic performance of devices.
To overcome these obstacles of fullerenes based acceptors, many efforts have been devoted to developing new kind of nonfullerene acceptor materials (Hendriks et al., 2014; Cheng et al., 2018; Hou et al., 2018; Yan et al., 2018).
Very recently, A-D-A conjugated fused-ring molecules based on indacenodithiophene (IDT, Figure 1) or DTIDT unit (Figure 4) were reported as excellent nonfullerene acceptors for high performance PSCs, leading the PCE of device to over 13% (Wang et al., 2016; Li S. et al., 2018).
Unlike fullerene derivatives, fused-ring based nonfullerene acceptor materials offer many molecular design strategies to tune their optoelectronic properties and thus photovoltaic performance.
In this review, we will provide some representative cases of molecular manipulation on IDT and DTIDT based nonfullerene acceptors to fine-tune the physicochemical and photovoltaic properties.
We hope that this review article would contribute to a better understanding of the design strategies of high performance fused-ring based acceptors for efficient nonfullerene PSCs.
IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors with different π conjugation extension.
IDT based fused-ring acceptors
innovatively used IDT as central core to develop an A-D-A (A = acceptor, D = donor) type acceptor material (NA1) with 2-(3-oxo-2,3-dihydroinden-1-ylidene)-malononitrile as terminal acceptor unit (Lin et al., 2016a).
NA1 showed promising energy levels and absorption spectrum as acceptor material for PSCs.
By using NA1 as acceptor and PDBT-T1 as donor to fabricate PSC device, a high PCE of 7.39% was obtained, with Voc = 0.92 V, Jsc = 13.39 mA cm−2, and FF = 0.60 (Table 2) (Lin et al., 2016a).
Extension of conjugated backbone with donor unit
The Voc of PSCs device is tightly correlated with the energy level difference between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor.
Therefore, high LUMO level of acceptor material is essential for achieving high Voc value.
In D-A conjugated molecular system, the donor unit mainly determines the HOMO level.
In other words, the optical bandgap (Eg) of D-A based molecules can be tuned by incorporating donor unit as conjugated extension while maintaining the similar LUMO level.
By using IEIC as acceptor and PTB7-Th as donor to fabricate device, a promising PCE of 6.31% was obtained, with Voc = 0.97 V, Jsc = 13.55 mA cm−2, and FF = 0.48 (Table 2).
replaced the 2-ethylhexyl chains of IEIC with alkoxy chains to develop a new acceptor IEICO (Yao et al., 2016).
The PSCs using IEICO as acceptor yielded a high PCE of 8.4%, with a Voc of 0.82 V and a Jsc of 17.7 mA cm−2, while the control device with IEIC as acceptor exhibited a much lower PCE of 4.9% (Table 2) (Yao et al., 2016).
Summary of absorption properties and energy levels of IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 1.
Summary of photovoltaic properties of the nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 1.
Extension of conjugated backbone with acceptor unit
Since the LUMO distribution is mainly located at the acceptor unit in D-A conjugated molecular system, using acceptor unit as building block can simultaneously manipulate the LUMO level and Eg of the molecules.
develop a nonfullerene acceptor NA7 (Figure 1) using benzothiadiazole as π-bridge (Wu et al., 2015).
In short, the extension of conjugated backbone with donor or acceptor units will generally broaden absorption spectra and reduce Eg of the resulting molecules, and the introduction of donor units as π-bridge is more effective to reduce the Eg than acceptor units.
On the other hand, the LUMO levels will be up-shifted when using donor units as π-bridge, while the incorporation of acceptor units will lead to higher LUMO levels.
Herein, the physicochemical and photovoltaic properties of IDT based acceptors can easily tune via side chains engineering in IDT unit.
developed an acceptor with non-conjugated alkyl chains in IDT unit (NA11, Figure 2) (Jia et al., 2017).
reported two alkyl chains substituted IDT based nonfullerene acceptors NA12 and NA 13 (Figure 2) (Holliday et al., 2016).
Alkyl chains substituted IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors.
Summary of absorption properties and energy levels of IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 2.
Summary of photovoltaic properties of the nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 2.
The end-capped groups also affect the optical and electrochemical properties of this kind of nonfullerene acceptors.
extended the π-conjugation area of the end group of NA1 to develop a new acceptor IDTN (as shown in Figure 3) (Li S. et al., 2017).
used 2-(benzo[c][1,2,5]- thiadiazol-4-ylmethylene)-malononitrile as end-capped groups to develop a new acceptor NA14 (Figure 3) (Bai et al., 2015b).
systematically engineered the end-capped units of three nonfullerene acceptors to carefully tune the driving force for high Voc and Jsc values (Tang et al., 2018).
By fine-tune the LUMO level of acceptor via end-capped unit, NA16 exhibited sufficient energy offset with J61 for efficient charge generation.
developed two thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-based acceptor, NA17 and NA18, with different end-capped groups (Figure 3) (Liu et al., 2016; Liu F. et al., 2017) NA17 exhibited an Eg of 1.54 eV, HOMO level of −5.50 eV, and LUMO level of −3.63 eV.
Using IEICO-4F as acceptor, PBDTTT-EFT or J52 as donor, high Jsc values over 20 mA cm−2 were both recorded in the corresponding devices (Table 6).
IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors with different end group.
Summary of absorption properties and energy levels of IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 3.
Summary of photovoltaic properties of the nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 3.
IDTT based fused-ring acceptors
The pioneering work for IDTT-based nonfullerene acceptor is the development of ITIC which was firstly reported by Lin et al.
ITIC possesses strong absorption, suitable energy level, good electron transport ability, and good miscibility with various polymer donors.
Later on, many state-of-the-art ITIC-based PSCs with excellent photovoltaic performance have been reported (Bin et al., 2016; Gao et al., 2016; Qin et al., 2016; Zhao W. et al., 2016; Yang et al., 2017a,b; Xu et al., 2018), and ITIC has been regarded as excellent acceptor for high performance PSCs.
extended the fused-ring core of ITIC and end-capped with different acceptor unit to develop a series of ITIC derivatives INIC, INIC1, INIC2, and INIC3 (Figure 4) (Dai et al., 2017).
By rational selection of polymer donor with matching energy level, over 13% PCEs have been achieved from IT-4F based PSCs (Cui Y. et al., 2017; Li S. et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018).
The PSCs device using ITCPTC as acceptor and PBT1-EH as donor demonstrated a high PCE of 11.8%, with a remarkable FF of 0.751 (Table 8).
introduced double bond π-bridges into ITIC to develop three acceptor materials (NA19, NA20, and NA21, as shown in Figure 4) (Li X et al., 2017).
IDTT core based nonfullerene acceptors.
Summary of absorption properties and energy levels of IDT core based nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 3.
Summary of photovoltaic properties of the nonfullerene acceptors shown in Figure 4.
Similar to IDT unit, the steric effect of tetrahexylphenyl substituents on the IDTT unit also can reduce intermolecular interactions and prevent the acceptor from forming excessively large crystalline domains when blending with donor material.
developed an IDTT-based acceptor with linear alkyl side chains (C8-ITIC) (Fei et al., 2018).
In summary, we have reviewed the recent progress of IDT and IDTT based nonfullerene acceptors for PSCs.
Compared with fullerene acceptors, IDT and IDTT based nonfullerene acceptors offer plenty of molecular design possibilities to tune the physicochemical properties.
With the purpose to well-match with the specific donor material, the absorption feature and energy levels of IDT and IDTT based acceptors can be easily and effectively manipulated by rational selection of π-bridge and end-capped groups.
Moreover, the intermolecular packing, molecular orientation, as well as crystallinity can be optimized by side-chains engineering to form good morphology with donor materials.
Benefiting from the diversification of chemical modification on acceptors and donors, significant progress has been achieved from the nonfullerene acceptors based PSCs.
Obviously, the emerging of nonfullerene acceptors brings a bright future for PSCs field.
Nevertheless, nonfullerene acceptors still confront challenges.
Firstly, although it is straightforward to manipulate the optical absorption and energy level of the IDT and IDTT based molecules, the anisotropic conjugated structures of nonfullerene acceptors make it more complicate to tune the miscibility between donor and acceptor for well-developed morphology.
In particularly, various nonfullerene acceptors with different photo-electronic and molecular packing properties have been developed, the rational selection of acceptor material to well-match with polymer donor is essential.
Secondly, to further improve the photovoltaic performance, much effort should be devoted to manipulate the energy levels of donor and acceptors for minimizing the energy loss of the devices.
employed alkyl-substituted thien-2-yl to function as BDT, and the 2-D donor–acceptor (D–A) CPs deriving from the alkylthiophene-substituted BDT with alkoxycarbonyl-substituted thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (TT-E) [13], alkylcarbonyl-substituted thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (TT-C) [13], quinoxaline derivatives (DTQx) [14], 1,3-bis(thioph-en-2-yl)-5,7-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione (BDD) [15], dialkoxybenzo-thiadiazole [16], etc., were built up.
For example, we presented a polymer (PBT-T-DPP-C12) with the alkylthien-2-yl flanked DTBDT as the electron donor moieties and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as the electron acceptor moieties in 2014 [23].
Following that, Huo, Huang and We et al., presented several high-performance 2-D CPs with alkylthiophene-flanked DTBDT as electron donor units, and 1,3-bis(5-bromothiophen-2-yl)-5,7- bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4H,8H-benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione [24], 4,9-di(4-hexylthien-2-yl)naph- tha[1,2-c:5,6-c′]bis[1,2,5]thiadiazole [25], 4,8-di(thien-2-yl)-6-octyl-2-octyl-5H-pyrrolo[3,4-f]benzotri- azole-5,7(6H)-dione [26], benzothiadiazole, 5,6-difluoro-benzothiadiazole [27], etc., as electron acceptor units.
The energy levels are important parameters to guide the selection of appropriate acceptors in PVCs.
To explore the influence of the flanks on the photovoltaic properties of the copolymers of the PDTBDT-TE-DTNT and PDTBDT-T-DTNT, inverted photovoltaic devices (i-PVCs) with a configuration of ITO/PFN/active layer/MoO3/Ag, in which PDTBDT-TE-DTNT and/or PDTBDT-T- DTNT was used as electron donor material, and PC71BM was used as electron acceptor material, were fabricated following the reported procedures [25].
Assuming that the only difference between the two polymers is that the donor units have different flanks, it makes sense that discrepancy between the optoelectronic and aggregation, etc., of the copolymers would mainly result from their different flanks.
Two new perylenediimides (PDIs) have been developed for use as electron acceptors in solution-processed bulk heterojunction solar cells.
In photovoltaic devices prepared using PDI dimers and a monomer in conjunction with PTB7, it was found that the formation of crystalline domains in either the acceptor or donor was completely suppressed.
In this respect, polymer and small molecule donors have both been the focus of significant research, leading to PCEs of over 10% when blends containing a fullerene-based acceptor [2,3,4,5] perylenediimide are used.
However, the high costs associated with their use have driven the quest for less synthetically-demanding acceptors.
In addition to cost, the poor light absorption properties of fullerenes in the visible region of the solar spectrum limit the efficiency of the active layer to that of the donor’s fraction.
Although polymers showed promising results initially, small-molecule non-fullerene acceptors ultimately became the most studied entities.
Among them, molecules built around the coranulene, truxene, subphtalocyanine, perylenediimide cores, or linear alternating donor/acceptor-shaped molecules, have yielded the best results to date.
Although the PCEs were typically lower than those of similar devices fabricated with [6,6]-phenyl-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), polymer/non-fullerene acceptor OSC devices have surpassed all reported records of polymer solar cells in recent tests, thus demonstrating that fullerenes are no longer an essential component in OPV [18,19,20,21,22,23,24].
Despite these encouraging results, non-fullerene acceptor materials are still yielding inconsistent results.
The perylenediimide family, however, has shown more balanced performance, with several acceptors showing PCEs of over 5% [25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32], and recently, PDI-based dimers with a twisted configuration have produced a PCE of more than 8% [33].
Moreover, the important mechanisms underlying suboptimum microstructure formation in perylene-based active layers have been identified [34,35]; namely, extensive conjugation in perylene cores induces intense π–π stacking, leading to the formation of micrometer-sized acceptor domains as well as excimers in the excited state [36], both of which are detrimental to J–V characteristics of OSC devices.
In an attempt to tune the aggregation properties of PDI acceptors, herein we report on a library of PDI molecules substituted at the bay position with diphenylphenoxy groups.
The experimental HOMO–LUMO levels, measured via differential pulse voltammetry (see ESI) are within a similar range to those of PCBM acceptors.
We chose PTB7 as a candidate for the polymer donor since the benzodithiophene–thienothiophenediyl copolymer family has shown the best results in devices fabricated with PDI acceptors [26,27,28,29,30].
The three PDIs were optimized for the donor/acceptor (D/A) ratio, annealing type and additive content.
Importantly, the PDI acceptors are seen to contribute significantly to photon conversion efficiency at lower wavelengths (500 to 600 nm).
The large difference in VOC between PDI 1 and the other two PDIs cannot be attributed solely to frontier energy orbital energetics (the difference between the LUMO energy level of the acceptor and the HOMO level of the donor).
The small perturbations in recombination kinetics exhibited by devices made from our PDIs are seen to be up to one order of magnitude slower than those reported for similar devices made from PCBM as an acceptor [43,50,53].
This results in devices with lower-than-average electron mobility when PDIs are used as acceptors instead of PC70BM, as well as to significantly slower recombination kinetics.
However, additional losses occur due to the lack of phase segregation between donor and acceptor phases.
Recently, the spectral control over the polaritonic absorption of strongly coupled organic compounds has been used to reduce photon energy losses in organic solar cells by effectively diminishing the bandgap of the absorber while, at the same time, decreasing the electron driving force and hence charge transfer losses.20 For this purpose, a layered structure made of subphthalocyanine (SubPc)-based thin films, each one performing a different function (electron donor or acceptor materials), was sandwiched between two metal contacts, which played the role of both electrical contacts and mirrors.
In the former process, the photo irradiation creates a donor exciton in the donor region and the donor exciton migrates to the donor (D)/acceptor (A) interface.
The BHJ active layer of OSC consists of phase-separated nano-size (several tens of nm) domains of the donor polymer and acceptor fullerene12345.
In order to clarify the interrelation between molecular mixing and the photovoltaic properties of BHJ-type OSCs, we selected a liquid-crystalline semiconducting polymer, F8T2, as the donor polymer, because the domain structure of the blend film with fullerene derivatives remains large (several hundreds of nm) and independent of Tan1516.
The observed absorption at 1.8 eV is ascribed to the donor carrier.
These observations indicate that the PIA is due to the donor carriers.
The decrease in number and the increase in size of the polymer clusters lead to less donor exciton reaching to the D/A interface, to cause the suppressed ΦCF, ΦIQ, and PCE.
We interpreted the observation in terms of the polymer clusters within the polymer matrix: the decrease in number and the increase in size of polymer clusters lead to less donor exciton reaching to the D/A interface, to causes of the suppressed ΦCF, ΦIQ, and PCE.
In general, the active layer of a polymer-based OPV is considered to possess a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) structure in which electron donor (p-type material) and acceptor (n-type one) are interpenetrated each other [2].
Since fullerene derivatives have several disadvantages such as high cost, low light absorption in the visible region, and low compatibility, studies on all-polymer solar cells utilizing polymeric acceptors, rather than low molecular weight fullerene derivatives, have been advanced in recent years [6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15].
Among the various polymeric acceptors used in completely polymer-based BHJ solar cells, poly{[N,N′-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene-1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5′-(2,2′-bithiophene)} [P(NDI2OD-T2)] (Figure 1) has been recognized as one of the most promising materials, having naphthalene diimide moieties which are known to have high absorption in the visible region, and high electron affinity with appropriate energy level [16].
To explore their potential application as photovoltaic materials, two isomeric acceptor–donor–acceptor type acceptors based on these two isomers were developed, showing a decent device efficiency of 10%, which indicates the great potential of this SiO-bridged ladder-type unit for the development of new high-performance semiconductor materials.Developing a new π-skeletal aromatic fused-ring for tuning material properties in organic electronics is still a challenge due to limited chemical approach.
This design aims to produce new donor units for the further development of high-performance organic/polymeric semiconductors.
Furthermore, we demonstrated that the incorporation of a SiO bridge into π-conjugated frameworks makes it possible to precisely tune the optoelectronic properties and molecular packing of π-systems, resulting in a decent device efficiency of 10% in polymer solar cells (PSCs) by the development of two novel isomeric siloxy-bridged A–D–A acceptors, which consist of our developed 6-membered laddered-SiO5T skeleton as the central donor unit and a dicyanomethylene derivative as the acceptor end group.
Development of SiO-bridged acceptor materials
The development of new n-type small-molecule semiconductor materials as electron acceptors in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic photovoltaics (OPVs) has progressed rapidly and attracted worldwide attention in recent years because of the advantages of these materials over typical fullerene derivatives in terms of structural flexibility and absorbent tunability, thermal/photochemical stability, solubility/processability and synthetic costs48–52.
Among the reported nonfullerene acceptors, acceptor–donor–acceptor (A-D-A) nonfullerene acceptors based on ladder-type π-systems seem to be the most successful to date due to their high electron mobility, suitable electronic energy levels, low bandgap, broad and strong absorpiton53–56.
The further development of a novel ladder-type backbone is the core to construct new A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors for overcoming the issues in OPVs.
Inspired by the good device performance obtained from those IDT-57–60 and CO5T-based61–65 ladder-type A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors, we speculated that the development of new A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors based on SiO-bridged ladder-type π-skeleton SiO5Ts can be a fruitful avenue for further improving the performance of nonfullerene PSCs because of silicon and oxygen synergistic effects.
Herein, two isomers of A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors (SiOTC and SiOTIC) were designed and synthesized, as shown in Fig.
3Development of the two A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors based on ladder-type SiO-bridged π-systems.a The synthetic route for the acceptor SiOTC.
b The synthetic route for the acceptor SiOTIC.
Development of the two A-D-A nonfullerene acceptors based on ladder-type SiO-bridged π-systems.
a The synthetic route for the acceptor SiOTC.
b The synthetic route for the acceptor SiOTIC.
Moreover, the SiOTIC acceptor also exhibited a higher maximum extinction coefficient with redshifted absorption relative to that of SiOTC in DCM (Fig.
Furthermore, the 0-1 absorption peak of the SiOTC acceptor is significantly strengthened in the solid film, indicating the stronger aggregation of SiOTC, which may lead to a complicated aggregation morphology and could be harmful to electron separation and transportation in the organic photovoltaic device.
In contrast, the 0–1 absorption peak of the SiOTIC acceptor in the film is decreased in comparison with that of its solution.
The optical bandgaps of the two acceptors were also estimated from the absorption edge, as shown in Table 1.
4Molecular physicochemical and optical properties of the acceptors.a UV–vis absorption of SiOTC and SiOTIC in DCM and film.
e Energy level diagram of the donor and acceptor photovoltaic materials.Table 1Optoelectronic properties of the two SiO-bridged A–D–A nonfullerene acceptors.aDCM was used as the solvent; bCalculated at λmax.
Molecular physicochemical and optical properties of the acceptors.
e Energy level diagram of the donor and acceptor photovoltaic materials.
Optoelectronic properties of the two SiO-bridged A–D–A nonfullerene acceptors.
SiOTIC has an up-shifted HOMO compared to that of SiOTC, which could be attributed to the position effects of silicon atoms in the isomeric acceptors.
1 and 2, the SiO-bridged acceptors SiOTC and SiOTIC possess high-lying energy levels for both the LUMO and HOMO relative to those of C-analog IDIC58, 59 and CO-analogs TPTC and TPTIC65.
The DFT calculations revealed that the better planarity and an enhanced push-pull effect between the electron donor/acceptor units on SiOTC/SiOTIC, as shown in Supplementary Figs.
This result suggested that the SiO-bridged acceptors have the potential to deliver a higher open-circuit voltage (Voc) in a polymer solar cell (PSC) device than those of the C- and CO-bridged analog-based devices.
In general, all these studies of optical properties, electronic energy levels, and crystallinity proved that the incorporation of silicon and oxygen atoms and the isomerization of the fused-ring central unit played vital roles in the properties of the two n-type electron acceptors.
6a, of the wide-bandgap donor polymer PM6 is perfectly complementary to the absorption spectra of the two SiO-bridged electron acceptors.
6b) also match well with those of the SiO-bridged acceptors (Fig. 5e).
Compared with the pure films, both PM6/SiOTC and PM6/SiOTIC binary blends exhibit complete PL quenching, indicating that efficient photoinduced charge transfer occurs in the films between the donor and acceptor molecules, which is a prerequisite for achieving high photovoltaic performance.
Then, we fabricated bulk heterojunction PSCs by employing PM6 as the donor and SiOTC or SiOTIC as the acceptor to assess the potential of these SiO-bridged small molecules as promising acceptors with a conventional device structure of ITO/PEDOT: PSS/PM6: acceptors/PNDIT-F3N/Ag.
The donor/acceptor weight ratio in the devices was optimized to be 1:1.2 in CB solvent with 0.5% DIO additive.
The different aggregation behaviors of the two isomeric siloxy-bridged acceptors in the blend active layers of the PSCs are responsible for the large difference in photovoltaic performance between the two acceptor-based devices.
It is important to note that the SiOTIC-based device shows better photovoltaic performance than the reported devices using C-bridged analogs (IDIC)58, 59 and CO-bridged analogs as the acceptors61, 63, 64.
Incorporation of SiOTIC as a guest acceptor significantly enhanced the electron mobility, leading to more balanced carrier mobility in contrast to the PM6/Y6 binary blend, which is responsible for the improvement in the performance of ternary devices.
These results indeed indicate that cooperation between silicon and oxygen in π-systems is a promising strategy for improving the photovoltaic properties of acceptor materials.Fig.
d EQE curves of the corresponding devices.Table 2The performance parameters of SiOTC- and SiOTIC-based PSCs with PM6 as the donor under 100 mW cm−2 AM 1.5 G irradiationa.AcceptorsVoc [V]Jsc [mA cm−2]JCal [mA cm−2]FF [%]PCE [%]SiOTC (as cast)0.82 (0.82 ± 0.002)4.92 (4.78 ± 0.13)4.7442.85 (41.66 ± 1.16)1.73 (1.61 ± 0.11)SiOTC (annealed)0.81 (0.81 ± 0.001)a5.06 (4.85 ± 0.21)4.9147.77 (47.08 ± 0.68)1.96 (1.77 ± 0.18)SiOTIC (as cast)0.93 (0.93 ± 0.002)13.68 (13.40 ± 0.28)13.0669.44 (68.16 ± 1.26)8.86 (8.40 ± 0.44)SiOTIC (annealed)0.92 (0.92 ± 0.002)14.52 (14.15 ± 0.35)13.8874.86 (73.83 ± 1.12)10.04 (9.67 ± 0.35)Y60.83 (0.83 ± 0.001)25.14 (24.79 ± 0.34)24.6775.15 (73.86 ± 1.28)15.68 (15.27 ± 0.40)Y6: SiOTIC (1.1:0.1)0.85 (0.85 ± 0.001)25.29 (24.94 ± 0.33)24.9177.11 (75.87 ± 1.23)16.58 (16.29 ± 0.38)aAverage value ± standard deviation were calculated from 10 independent devices.
The performance parameters of SiOTC- and SiOTIC-based PSCs with PM6 as the donor under 100 mW cm−2 AM 1.5 G irradiationa.
To study the influences of phase-separated morphology on the performance of devices, atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were conducted to study the film surface of the blend film with these two acceptors.
The isomeric effects and the silicon and oxygen synergistic effects of the two SiO-bridged acceptors on the physicochemical and photovoltaic performance were systematically investigated.
The results revealed that the molecular geometries, photophysical properties, and aggregation behaviors of the acceptors can be finely adjusted via alteration of the silicon atom positions on the fused-ring central units, thus resulting in a significant effect on the blend film morphology, charge mobility, and photovoltaic performance.
Higher device performance can be expected with further efforts on device engineering, such as using appropriate donors, interfacial interlayers, and morphology control.
The structure–property relationship is beneficial to the discovery of new n-type organic semiconductor acceptors for high-performance PSCs.
Two donor-π-spacer-acceptor (D-π-A) organic dyes were designed as photochromic dyes with the same π-spacer and acceptor but different donors, based on their electron-donating strength.
Based on the results, we justified how the trans-cis isomerization and different donor groups influence the physical properties as well as the photovoltaic performance of the resultant dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs).
Metal-free organic dyes, which commonly feature a push-pull architecture like dipolar donor–π-bridge–acceptor (D–π–A) frameworks, are being studied for use in DSSCs more than Ru-based dyes.
In the D–π–A structure, the donor unit plays an important role in not only tuning and modifying the absorption spectra but also controlling the molecular energy levels and intramolecular charge separation.
Thus, several studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of changing the donor units on the absorption characteristics of the dyes and DSSC performance [7,8].
Although triphenylamine, dialkylamine, and diphenylamine moieties are commonly used as electron donors [4,9], only a few studies have systematically investigated the molecular origin of the DSSC performance modulated by these donor groups.
The use of a bulky donor moiety leads to a high open circuit voltage, longer electron lifetime, and slower back-transfer of electrons, resulting in higher photovoltaic performance [17].
The role of donor moieties in the photoinjection mechanism has also been investigated for a series of D–π–A-structured dyes adsorbed on a (TiO2)15 anatase cluster in the DFT framework using various functionals [18].
investigated the properties of numerous azobenzene-based dyes with different electron-donating groups and reported that the donor groups did not have any significant effect on their optical properties, such as LHE and exciton binding energy [19].
The objective of this study was to understand the effect of different donor groups (dimethylamine and diphenylamine) on the photophysical properties of the two azo dyes and the photovoltaic performances of the resultant DSSCs.
Here, DMAC and DPAC contained methyl and phenyl moieties in their donor moieties, respectively.
Figure 1 shows that the trans dyes were fully conjugated as well as extremely coplanar compared to the twisted cis structures throughout the donor, π-bridge, and acceptor groups.
Because of the strong π-conjugation, the planar trans dyes suppressed the rotational disorder and transferred more charge from the donor to the acceptor compared to the distorted cis dyes.
As the electron-donating strength of the donor group increased from DMAC to DPAC dyes, the C-N distances increased; however, the N=N distances decreased in the respective trans and cis isomers.
For both, the DMAC and DPAC dyes (Figure 3a), the electron densities of the HOMOs were extended to the donor up to the azobenzene moiety of the π-spacer, whereas the electron densities of the LUMOs were mainly delocalized along the right part of the π-spacer to the cyanoacrylic acid moiety.
This was beneficial for the photon-driven ICT process and led to a charge transfer from the donor to the acceptor.
ICT is facilitated if the electron density distribution of the HOMO is located near the electron donor, while that of the LUMO is delocalized around an anchoring group, ready for electron injection into the CB of the TiO2 semiconductor.
The electron densities of the HOMOs for the trans and cis dye/TiO2 complexes were distributed from the donor to the π-spacer, similar to the isolated dyes, whereas the electron densities of the LUMOs of the dye/TiO2 complexes were almost entirely concentrated on TiO2, which indicated that the LUMO located close to the cyanoacrylic acid anchoring group enhanced the orbital overlap with the 3d orbitals of Ti.
The change in the electron density between the molecular orbitals (Figure 2) showed that the electron moved from the donor to the acceptor unit, which is an ICT and conducive to a high JSC.
The red shift of the maximum absorption wavelength of the dye after binding to TiO2 could be explained on the basis of the interactions between the electron acceptor group of the dye (–COOH) and the 3d orbitals of the Ti atom, which resulted in a decrease in the LUMO energies as compared to the isolated dyes.
For the isolated dyes (Figure 7a), the density depletion zones (blue) were mostly located on the donor and π-spacer regions, while the density enhancement segments (green) were mainly delocalized on the acceptor moiety, which was indicative of an ICT transfer during electron transition.
The CDD plots of the dye/TiO2 complexes (Figure 7b) showed that the density increment region was mostly located on the acceptor moiety, while the density depletion zone was spread over the donor moiety as well as in TiO2; this implied that some of the hole and electron densities were delocalized on the dye molecule, while the rest of the electron density was localized on TiO2.
Based on the optimized structure of the ground state, NBO analysis was performed to further understand the distribution of charge on the overall dye molecules and the electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor through the π-spacer to estimate the extent of ICT.
The NBO population charges for the electron donor, π-spacer, and electron acceptor, which are denoted as qDonor, qπ-spacer, and qAcceptor, respectively, are summarized in Table 4.
The most significant charge variance between the natural charges on the donor and acceptor groups is represented as ∆qD−A.
The positive NBO values of the donor moiety indicated that they were effective electron-donating units.
The negative charge of the electron acceptor could be a factor leading to electron injection from the excited dye to the TiO2 CB.
Between the DMAC and DPAC dyes, the former exhibited higher qdonor and ∆qD−A values compared to the latter.
A high ∆E2 implied more charge transfer from the donor (π) to the acceptor (π*) parts.
With increasing donor size, ∆E2 increased from the DMAC to DPAC dyes.
As shown in Figure S3, the electron density of the hole NTOs was localized on the donor moiety and extended along the π-spacer for the E-DMAC and E-DPAC dyes, whereas the density was delocalized from the donor to the acceptor moiety for the cis dyes.
Additionally, the electron density of the particle NTOs was delocalized mainly on the π-spacer to the acceptor moiety for all the dyes.
During visible-light absorption, the electronic transition allowed a net electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor, and subsequently to the TiO2 surface.
In this regard, the donating capability of the donor was important for charge transfer, as additional noticeable electronic density separation required a stronger donor (Figure S3).
Generally, a dye with a higher polarizability strongly interacts with the surrounding species and increases the local concentration of the acceptor species at the TiO2 surface, which increases the possibility of the acceptor species penetrating the dye adsorption layer.
It is noteworthy that all the components of the first hyperpolarizabilities of the two dyes were mainly along βxxx, which indicated a unidirectional charge transfer from the donor to the acceptor.
Although the first hyperpolarizability of DPAC was higher than that of DMAC, the former prevented electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor because of the non-planar structure of the donor, thereby affecting the effective electron injection from the dye molecule to the CB of the semiconductor.
Dyes with different dipole moments (Ds) can modify the CB of wide-bandgap semiconductors (e.g., TiO2 and ZnO) and affect the nature of the interaction between the dye and the acceptor species.
Electron injection from the excited dye to the semiconductor was very fast, which suggested that increasing the concentration of the acceptor on the TiO2 surface would increase the possibility of the acceptor species penetrating the adsorbed dye layer, thus leading to electron recombination following a short electron lifetime.
The capability to accept an electron from a donor is measured by EA, which can be represented as ω+.
The ω+ values of the dyes decreased in the order of Z-DPAC < Z-DMAC < E-DPAC < E-DMAC, which indicated that the trans DMAC dye had the highest electron-withdrawing ability, and therefore, a higher ability to attract electrons from the acceptor moiety of the dye.
Moreover, changing the donor moiety in both trans and cis dyes affected the f and LHE, which implied that the LHE was affected by both, the conformational change of the azobenzene bridge structures and the electron-donating strength of the donor group.
Moreover, the effects of the substituted donor groups, including the trans-cis-trans conformational change of the azobenzene π-spacer, on the photovoltaic properties were computationally investigated using DFT and TDDFT methods before and after dye adsorption on TiO2 for DSSCs.
(ix) NBO analysis revealed that the trans dyes showed a greater charge difference between the donor and acceptor moieties.
Five carbazole and diketopyrrolopyrrole-based donor-acceptor (D-A) new π-conjugated oligomers (π-COs) with gradually elongated lengths are facilely synthesized via a single pot of direct C–H arylation with merits of atom- and step-economy.
The rapid progress of donor & acceptor materials and the optimization of devices has enabled the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPV to attain a new stage and thus highlights the great potential of π-functional materials for device applications [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15].
In this study, a series of carbazole (Cz) and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)-based donor-acceptor (D-A) novel homologous π-COs with gradually increasing repeat units (i.e., DPP-Cz-DPP (O1), DPP-(Cz-DPP)2-DPP (O2), DPP-(Cz-DPP)3-DPP (O3), DPP-(Cz-DPP)4-DPP (O4) and DPP-(Cz-DPP)5-DPP (O5)), accordingly with 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 monomers, and molecular weights ranging between 1449~5161, were simultaneously produced in a single pot via direct C–H arylation reaction (Scheme 1), and facilely separated by a single chromatographic column (CC), affording acceptable yields.
DPP-Cz-based D-A polymers have been employed as donor materials in OPVs [41,42,43,44].
The OPV performances of the π-COs and P1 were studied by a device architecture of glass/ITO/PEDOT:PSS/BHJ layer/PFN-Br/Ag, wherein the BHJ layers consist of π-COs (or P1) and PC70BM as donor and acceptor, respectively.
The Os1~5 and their parent polymer P1 were employed as donor materials to pair with PC71BM for BHJ OPV device study.
This parameter depends on the recombination rate from the ZnO electrode to acceptors in the electrolyte (I3− in Fig.
The energy offsets needed for bulk heterojunction to ensure efficient exciton dissociation lead to a voltage loss of ∼0.3 eV in practice.4 Besides, to achieve efficient exciton splitting at interfaces, complex interpenetrating networks of donor and acceptor materials are required, which cause instabilities in interfaces, and make morphology optimization intricate.
To clearly show how important the impact of side chains on organic solar cells (OSCs) is, we designed three acceptors IDIC-CxPh (x = 4, 5, or 6) via subtle side-chain regulation.
Excitingly, the IDIC-C5Ph affords an unexpected two-channel π-π charge transport (TCCT) property, boosting the fill factor (FF) by up to 80.02% and efficiency to 14.56%, ranking the best among five-ring fused-ladder-type acceptors.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) have been recognized as a promising technology to efficiently harvest solar energy because of its light-weight, low-cost, and printable potential.1, 2, 3 Excitingly, since 2015, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) have been greatly improved by small-molecule acceptors.4,5 Benefiting from the acceptor Y6 and its derivatives, PCEs of over 17% have been recorded, signifying bright applications for OSCs.6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Intensive reports have revealed that the increased crystallinity of polymeric or small-molecule donors could improve BHJ morphologies and generate greater PCEs.14, 15, 16, 17, 18 Likewise, considerable efforts have been dedicated to the regulation of crystallinity of nonfullerene acceptors.19, 20, 21, 22 In addition to the π-conjugated molecular backbones, side-chain engineering has been recognized as one facile efficient approach to regulate material crystallinity and BHJ microstructures to provide solubilities for solution processing of active layers.23,24
With regard to the influential ladder-type nonfullerene acceptors that have emerged since 2015, we note that nearly all reports focused on the crystallinity enhancement for higher efficiency.
This is mainly ascribed to the widely used aryl-type side chains, which afford inherent insufficient crystallinity by way of the bulky steric hindrance close to the π backbone, and further leads to lower electron mobilities, blue-shifted absorption, and smaller extinction coefficients than the well-aligned n-alkyl side-chain-attached analogs.25, 26, 27 As for Y6 structural acceptors, which feature long and branched alkyl side chains at the large π backbones, adjustment of these side chains is also essential to achieve a better crystallinity and more preferred BHJ properties.6,28, 29, 30 Different from these discoveries, we present a fresh perspective to modulate the BHJ morphologies by attachment of a simple bulky phenyl at the alkyl chain terminal (IDIC-C4Ph), which moderately lowers the crystallinity of the acceptor, suppresses the excessive self-aggregation, and benefits the formation of fine nanoscale morphologies.31 Interestingly, solar cells with high crystalline alkyl side-chain-modified IDIC recorded best efficiency at ~12% with FFs ~70% from as-cast devices, and post-treatments inevitably reduced the performance.31,32 On the contrary, IDIC-C4Ph-based devices delivered much higher PCEs of ~14% with enhanced FFs to 78% under thermal annealing (TA) optimization.31 Therefore, we believe that this type of alkyl chain-phenyl terminal has a fascinating impact on the material crystallinity and photovoltaic performance, and could probably afford some new interesting findings with regard to the structure-function relationship.
To further confirm great the impact of side chains, here we systematically investigated the subtle alkyl chain from n-C4H8- to n-C6H12-, which are inserted between the backbone and phenyl terminal and three acceptors IDIC-CxPh (x = 4, 5, 6) (Figure 1).
(E) GIWAXS scattering patterns of the three acceptors.
(E) GIWAXS scattering patterns of the three acceptors.
The synthetic details of the three acceptors are collected in Scheme S1.
It seems that the solution absorption profiles of the three acceptors remain almost overlapped.
This suggests the weakest crystallinity of IDIC-C5Ph among the three acceptors, and partly explains the slightly blue-shifted absorption than IDIC-C6Ph.
To explore the molecular stacking of acceptors more intuitively, we cultured their single crystals and obtained their molecule packing modes using X-ray crystallography.36 The crystallography data are collected in Tables S1–S3.
Yet, inspiringly, if we could effectively improve the film crystallinity of IDIC-C5Ph, it probably would afford similar TCCT crystal properties, giving significantly enhanced charge transport behaviors.Figure 2Single-Crystal StudiesThe molecular packing of three acceptors in single crystals.
The molecular packing of three acceptors in single crystals.
To evaluate the photovoltaic properties, we prepared OSCs with a conventional structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PBDB-TF:acceptor/PDINO/Al.
The photovoltaic parameters with different PBDB-TF:acceptor weight ratios are collected in Table S4.
Typically, it is worth highlighting that all three OSCs deliver FFs, which are recognized as the most complicated parameters, given the relatively definite relationships of open-circuit voltage (VOC) and JSC with the energy level/photophysical properties of the donor/acceptor.37, 38, 39, 40, 41 To intuitively display the evolution of FFs, the statistical FF distribution histograms are shown in Figures 3D–3F.
The high FF contributes to an impressive PCE of 14.56%, which ranks highest in simple IDIC family acceptors.
The photoluminescence spectra indicate the efficient charge transfer between the donor and IDIC-C5Ph with and without treatments (Figure S12).
To better understand the variations in EQE, we measured the absorption spectra of PBDB-TF, the three acceptors, and their donor/acceptor blends (Figure S18).
However, the treatment to three acceptors causes obviously varied absorption properties.
Relative to acceptors, similar trends are found in blends.
Notably, the PBDB-TF:IDIC-C5Ph blend affords almost identical trends with the neat acceptor.
To probe deeply into the molecular stacking variations in acceptor films, we conducted GIWAXS studies on the films of IDIC-CxPh (x = 4, 5, or 6) and the results are shown in Figure 4.
We found that this subtle side-chain difference also endows the three acceptors with different responses to TA or TA-SVA.
As shown in Figure 4G, TA-SVA endows the film with incomputable sharp and well-defined diffraction spots along the horizontal, vertical, and even the off-axis directions, suggesting the generation of many crystallites, and probably two π-π channels for charge transport in these crystallites, as observed in crystals (Figure 2).45,46 This distinctive two-channel charge transport would facilitate the electron transfer in pure acceptor domains and suppress the charge combination in active layers, which is critical for the exceptional FFs achieved here.
To further study the charge transport behaviors of three acceptors under different treatments, we conducted SCLC measurements to determine their electron mobilities (μe) and the results are shown in Figures S20–S22.
For the IDIC-C6Ph-based blend, the polymeric donor apparently suppresses the overly disordered orientations of IDIC-C6Ph and promotes the face-on orientations in the TA blend (Figure 5I), with a narrowed dπ-π from 3.58 to 3.48 Å and an increased CCL from 16.11 to 22.44 Å.
The compact molecular stacking of crystalline IDIC-C5Ph after TA-SVA is beneficial for the formation of pure acceptor crystalline domains in the BHJ, and enhances the charge transport as well as phase separation behavior.
For a clear comparison, the common single-channel charge transport acceptor IDIC-C4Ph-based devices were also studied.
It is known that the efficient acceptor Y6 can produce a very high PCE of 15.7% in a single BHJ of 150 nm with a good FF of 74.8%.5 However, in 300 nm thick-film devices, the FF dropped to 62.3% (83.29% of initial value).
Through a simple and subtle modification of side chains, three acceptors IDIC-CxPh (x = 4, 5, or 6) differ greatly in crystallinity, molecular stacking, BHJ morphology, photovoltaic properties, and their best post-process conditions.
Unexpectedly, the modest C5Ph chain induces the lowest film crystallinity among the three acceptors, but the densest diamond crossing two-channel π-π stacking in crystals, which affords promising TCCT properties.
This PDI trimer exhibits a higher photovoltaic conversion efficiency when assembled as an electron acceptor in an organic solar cell with PBDB-T compared to its corresponding dimer and multimer [50].
In this work, a facile synthetic strategy is reported, where optoelectronic properties are delicately tuned by the introduction of electron-deficient-core-based fused structure into non-fullerene acceptors.
These unconventional electron-deficient-core-based non-fullerene acceptors with near-infrared absorption lead to low non-radiative recombination losses in the resulting organic photovoltaics, contributing to a certified high power conversion efficiency of 12.6%.Improving the power conversion efficiency is the main target of the organic solar cell research.
develop unconventional electron-deficient-core-based non-fullerene acceptors to achieve both low voltage loss and high current density, leading to a certified high efficiency of 12.6%.
Recombination of radiative charge-transfer (CT) states can also be present due to energetic offsets between the donor (D) and the acceptor (A) components20–22.
In a very recent work23, two design rules are formulated aiming at reducing the voltage loss and increasing the efficiency of OPVs: (1) Small energy offset between the donor and acceptor materials, and (2) high luminescence yield of the lower-gap single component (and hence the blend).
Among the materials candidates meeting these design rules, A-D-A-structured non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) are extremely promising since they exhibit strong intramolecular charge-transfer (ICT) effect, superior energy level tunability, and good molecular crystallinity24–27.
From the aspect of molecular design, synthesis of donor and acceptor materials with complementary absorption profiles intended to maximize the coverage of the solar spectrum has been one of the prerequisites for achieving a high photocurrent.
By using DAD fused core one could also adopt a relatively planar structure rather than a twisted one and hence, facilitate the electron transfer from the donor to acceptor since the planarized DAD enhances the delocalization of π-electrons.
A commercial donor polymer PBDB-T35 is selected because of its negligible band offsets with Y1 and Y2.
Characterization of non-fullerene acceptors
To meet the rules mentioned above, our molecule design rational consists of tuning the HOMO levels relatively close to that of the donor and, meanwhile, lowering the LUMO levels to make the absorption spectra of donor material and acceptor materials complementary:Introducing the nitrogen atoms in the center core unit serve as heteroatomic bridges for covalent planarization36: this provides stronger electron-donating character and allow for charge carrier mobility in contrast to cyclopentadiene (the center structural unit of the IDTT)37,38, thus increasing the HOMO energy levels;Adding a weak electron-withdrawing moiety of 2-ethylhexyl-benzo[d]- [1,2,3]-triazoles segment39 in the middle of the central core to form a fused DAD structure: this helps to improve the efficient radiative recombination pathway and enhance the electroluminescence yield of the single components.
a Chemical structure of the acceptor molecules.
b Normalized absorption spectra of the acceptors Y1 and Y2.
a Chemical structure of the acceptor molecules.
b Normalized absorption spectra of the acceptors Y1 and Y2.
1c, although the ΔHOMO offset between the PBDB-T donor (Supplementary Fig.
9b), where PBDB-T was chosen as the donor material.
The donor/acceptor ratios in the active layer were carefully optimized (Supplementary Table 2).
Following our previous publication, we blend the insulating polymer polystyrene (PS) with the acceptor materials, to mimic the dispersed morphology in the active layer of the devices23.
Consistent with our and other’s previous reports23,44, the timescale on which the PL quenching occurs is very slow compared with traditional fullerene-based devices (those with large energetic offset between the donor and acceptor materials).
In summary, we demonstrate that the two NIR-absorbing multifused benzotrizole-based NFAs, Y1 and Y2, blending with a commercialized donor PBDB-T can achieve a high PCE of 13.42% and 13.40%, respectively.
In addition, despite small donor−acceptor energy offsets, highly efficient charge generation efficiencies have been shown for both PBDB-T:Y1 and PBDB-T:Y2 blend films.
These results are achieved using a simple design strategy by incorporation of nitrogen acting as a bridging atom between adjacent electron-donor (thieno[3,2-b]thiophene) segment and weak electron-deficient segment (benzotriazole) (DAD fused core), leading to strong absorption in Vis−NIR region.
The morphologies of the polymer/acceptor blend films were investigated by AFM (Bruker Dimension Fast Scan Scanning Probe Microscope) in contact mode using a 1 and 5 μm (Supplementary Fig.
This review first summarizes recent studies on various approaches to obtain ideal vertical D/A phase separation in nonfullerene acceptor (NFAs)‐based LbL OSCs by proper solvent selection, processing additives, protecting solvent treatment, ternary blends, etc.
Recent developments on nonfullerene acceptor‐based LbL OSCs are discussed by considering vertical p–i–n morphology control, exciton diffusion/separation, and large area device fabrication.
reported the first donor (D)/acceptor (A) planar heterojunction (PHJ) OSCs by vacuum deposition with a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of ≈1% in 1986, but such a device structure limited the photovoltaic performance due to short exciton diffusion length (L D) of photoactive materials and the limited D/A interface.
To maximize the charge collection efficiency at the electrodes, the desired vertical phase separation with enrichment of the donor and acceptor phases near the anode and cathode, respectively, is needed, but difficult to achieve in BHJ OSCs.
Several previous studies have revealed that nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) have longer L Ds than fullerenes, enabling optimal domain sizes of 20–50 nm in BHJ blends.
[  17 ,  18  ] After these pioneering works, many research groups investigated sequential LbL‐processed PPHJ OSCs extensively, including polymer donors and small molecular acceptor pairs, all‐polymer D/A pairs, ternary and quaternary mixtures, processing additives, and posttreatments to further optimize vertical D/A phase separation and device performance.
Second, the longer L D of NFAs (compared to fullerene derivatives) is discussed in terms of self‐Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) between acceptor molecules in the A phase to increase flexibility in the morphological control for high‐performance LbL OSCs.
BHJ structures, which are generally fabricated by blending donor and acceptor materials in the same solvent, have been a dominant configuration for OSCs because they can create sufficient D/A interfaces for exciton dissociation.
First, charge recombination at the cathode and anode is unavoidable to some extent, as donor and acceptor phases are usually distributed randomly in a vertical direction within the BHJ structures; consequently, charges are not collected at the cathodes and anodes that have interfaces with the donor (responsible for hole transport) and acceptor (electron transport) phases, respectively.
In particular, the π‐conjugated chemical structures of NFAs and polymer donors are similar, resulting in a low Flory‐Huggins interaction parameter χ, which makes it more difficult to obtain the desired D/A vertical phase distribution.
Predicting and controlling the BHJ morphology, which is dependent on the processing conditions, also remains a challenge because the solution process of the mixture of donor and acceptor materials leads to complicated dynamics and kinetics during the morphological evolution.
LbL films are fabricated independently on the bottom electrode and are composed of a photoactive layer (donor) followed by another layer (acceptor) in the case of conventional OSCs.
Therefore, it is easy to produce the desired D/A vertical phase separation in which the donor and acceptor phases are abundant near the anode and cathode, respectively (Figure 1a).
Therefore, most of the reports are based on a conventional device architecture consisting of an NFA layer on top of a polymer donor layer because entangled structures of polymer donors usually exhibit high solvent resistance against various solvents.
fabricated conventional LbL OSCs of indium tin oxide (ITO)/poly(3,4‐ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT):polystyrene sulfonate (PSS)/polymer donor/NFA/2,9‐bis[3‐(dimethyloxidoamino)propyl]anthra(2,1,9‐def:6,5,10‐d'e′f′)diisoquinoline‐1,3,8,10(2H,9H)‐tetrone (PDINO)/Al, in which PBDB‐T (1‐6), which is widely used as a benchmark electron donor, and a benzodi(cyclopentadithiophene)‐based NFA, NCBDT (2‐7) were selected as donor and acceptor layers, respectively.
[  17  ] For discussing various donor and acceptor materials, their abbreviations have been directly used because full names are often difficult to define clearly for complex D and A structures.
The molecular structures of the donors and acceptors discussed in this review are shown in Figures  2  and  3 , respectively.
[  18  ] They selected PBDB‐TFS1 (1‐3) as the polymer donor and IT‐4F (2‐4) as the NFA, where THF solvent was used for processing IT‐4F on top of the PBDB‐TFS1 layer.
Molecular structures of donor materials discussed in this review.
Molecular structures of acceptor materials discussed in this review.
To overcome this problem, they suggested using polymer donors with temperature‐dependent aggregation (TDA) properties, which allow the polymers to disaggregate at high temperatures (≈100 °C) but aggregate at room temperature in solution.
With TDA polymer donors such as PffBT4T‐2OD (1‐21), P3TEA (1‐23), and PTFB‐O (1‐7), the polymer films almost preserve their film quality regardless of the type of solvent, even with high‐boiling‐point solvents such as CB and o‐XY, because of the low solubility of TDA materials at room temperature.
They found that the solvent of the NFAs enables inter‐diffusion between the polymer donors and NFAs; therefore, PTFB‐O and ITIC‐Th almost formed a BHJ morphology in the middle region (20–80 nm), while ITIC‐Th and PTFB‐O were mainly present in the top (80–100 nm) and bottom (0–20 nm) regions, respectively.
also demonstrated the importance of the solubility of polymer donors by synthesizing them with different types of side chains.
When fabricating LbL OSCs by depositing an NFA N3 (2‐18) in CF on top of polymer donors (PNTB6‐Cl or PNTB‐Cl), only the amorphous region in the PNTB6‐Cl film was washed away while preserving the crystalline phase.
These results suggest the importance of designing the chemical structures of polymer donors for producing efficient LbL OSCs with the proper choice of NFA processing solvents.
[  54  ] They suggested a simple and easy method to fabricate LbL structures without any concerns regarding the damage to the underlying polymer layer by applying a layer of a protecting solvent before spin‐coating NFAs on top of the polymer donor layer (Figure 5).
They fabricated conventional LbL OSCs using PBDB‐T and PYT (2‐14) as a polymer donor and acceptor, respectively.
also reported LbL all‐PSCs using the same polymer donor and acceptor.
Furthermore, it is easy to fabricate an inverted LbL device based on all‐PSCs because of the limited solubility of the polymer acceptors.
successfully demonstrated inverted‐type LbL OSCs using N2200 (2‐6) and PBDB‐T for preparing the polymer acceptor and donor layers, respectively (ITO/zinc oxide (ZnO)/N2200/PBDB‐T/molybdenum trioxide (MoO3)/Ag).
The main advantage of LbL OSCs is that independent deposition of donor and acceptor layers can ensure their crystalline packing structures compared to BHJ structures.
A one‐step solution process with a mixture of donor and acceptor in BHJ OSCs may interrupt the self‐assembly of each phase; therefore, it is difficult to obtain an ideal morphology with enhanced crystallinity of the donor and acceptor phases.
One of the most effective ways to optimize the blend morphology is the introduction of high‐boiling solvent additives such as 1,8‐diiodooctane (DIO) and CN during solution‐processing of donors and/or acceptors.
The vertical phase distribution was also studied by introducing two different additives into the polymer donor and NFA layers.
Chen and co‐workers added 1,10‐decanediol (DDO) and CN additives to PM6 donor (in CF) and Y6 NFA (in CF), respectively, to precisely control the vertical phase distribution.
also demonstrated the importance of the proper choice of processing additives for the underlying layer of polymer donors.
[  21  ] They incorporated a trace amount of a wax additive (parafilm M, 0–1.5 wt%) into a PM6 donor solution.
Similar studies on finding proper additives for polymer donor and/or NFA layers have also been reported by several other research groups.
also observed overmixing behavior between a polymer donor and NFA while depositing NFA using CF solvent, resulting in the BHJ‐like morphology.
On the cathode side, a small molecular acceptor, NDI‐i8 (2‐34), was deposited by thermal evaporation to improve electron transport and block hole transfer to the cathode, which produced a final hybrid heterojunction with a favorable vertical component distribution (Figure 7b,c).
[  14 ,  15 ,  16  ] In addition, long‐range FRET from donor to acceptor layers in LbL structures effectively occurs when NFAs are used instead of fullerene derivatives, resulting in the formation of a charge‐transfer (CT) state at the D/A interfaces.
Upon absorption of photons, singlet excitons are mostly generated within donor and acceptor phases, and the long‐range diffusion of these mainly occurs via FRET.
[  83 ,  85  ] FRET is a nonradiative energy transfer via a dipole–dipole interaction between donor and acceptor; therefore, an exciton can be relocated from an excited donor to an acceptor via FRET.
Here, it is noteworthy that donor and acceptor refer to neighboring donor molecules (or acceptor ones) in a single phase of p‐type (or n‐type) molecules, both of which can have the same chemical structure.
The relationship between L D and FRET efficiency is expressed as,[  83  ]  (2) LD=τfD=1d26R06τfτ0=1d269ϕPLκ2128π5n4τfτ0J where R 0 is the Förster radius (typically 1–10 nm), τ 0 and τ f are the intrinsic exciton lifetime and photoluminescence (PL) lifetime in a solid film, respectively, κ 2 is the dipole orientation factor, d is the intermolecular distance, Φ PL is the photoluminescence quantum yield, and J is the spectral overlap integral between the emission of the donor and absorption of the acceptor molecules.
In particular, it has been regarded that optimizing Φ PL and J is especially important for increasing L D.[  83 ,  87  ] Therefore, it is necessary to develop conjugated materials with small Stokes shifts for efficient self‐FRET between donor molecules in the D phase and between acceptor molecules in the A phase, together with high Φ PL, to increase L D.
Additionally, the use of NFAs instead of fullerenes in LbL p–i–n structures facilitates long‐range exciton diffusion via FRET from donor to acceptor layers because NFAs usually have a large spectral overlap of absorption with the PL of donor polymers.
The transferred excitons in the NFA layer subsequently form a CT state and dissociate by hole transfer from the NFA to the donor molecules at the D/A interfaces.
Several research groups claimed that the increased L D of NFAs and long‐range FRET from donor to acceptor phases can produce high‐performance LbL OSCs with the use of NFAs.
Assuming a Förster radius for exciton–exciton annihilation of 4.8 nm, a D of 2 × 10–2 cm2 s‐1 was obtained for IDIC, which is much higher than those of other classical organic semiconductors including fullerene acceptors, for example, PC71BM (D = 1.6 × 10–4 cm2 s‐1), P3HT (1‐2, D = 1.8 × 10–3 cm2 s‐1), poly(p‐phenylene vinylene) derivatives (D = 0.3–3 × 10–3 cm2 s‐1), and PCPDTBT (1‐25, D = 3 × 10–3 cm2 s‐1).
b) Absorption spectra of NFAs and PL spectrum of polymer donor (PBDB‐T‐2F), c) exciton diffusion mechanism via FRET, and d) long‐range energy transfer from polymer donor to NFA layers in LbL OSCs.
Based on the above result, Hodgkiss and co‐workers investigated the photovoltaic performance of LbL OSCs by using PBDB‐T‐2F (PM6) as a polymer donor and various NFAs, including ITIC‐Th1 (2‐19), IDIC, IDICO1 (2‐38), IDICO2 (2‐39), and NIDCS‐HO (2‐40).
In addition to the different L D values of the NFAs, long‐range FRET between the polymer donor and NFA layers also contributed to the high PCEs of the LbL OSCs (Figure 8b,c).
To confirm the presence of D–A FRET, they inserted a thin charge‐blocking layer of Al2O3 (≈7 nm) between the polymer donor (PBDB‐T‐2F) and NFA (IDIC) layers, which allowed D/A FRET but prevented direct exciton dissociation at the D/A interface (Figure 8d).
compared long‐range FRET characteristics between polymer donors (PBDB‐T‐2F) and acceptor layers in an LbL architecture using a series of acceptors, including ITIC (2‐9), IDIC, IT‐4F, and PC71BM.
From time‐resolved PL measurements, it was observed that efficient FRET and CT state formation at the D/A interface occurred in NFAs (ITIC, IDIC, and IT‐4F)‐based LbL devices, but not in the PC71BM‐based device, which was also explained by the different extents of spectral overlap between the PL of the donor and absorption of acceptors (no spectral overlap in a PC71BM and PBDB‐T‐2F pair).
The vertical phase gradation in the LbL blend can effectively narrow the shape of the DOS with the up‐shifted electron quasi‐Fermi level of the acceptor and the down‐shifted hole quasi‐Fermi level of the donor, inducing better Fermi level alignment with the electrodes.
The optimal morphology of BHJ films is generally metastable, where the self‐aggregation of the donor and acceptor with increased phase separation leads to unbalanced carrier transport with degradation in device performance.
The p–i–n PPHJ structure is formed by depositing the donor and acceptor layers separately, and its favorable phase separation with purer phases is expected to be important for the thermodynamically stable morphology, which is promising toward realizing superior stability of OSCs.
[  57  ] By using two kinds of different boiling point solvents (CB/CF), the donor (PM6) layer was cast using a high‐boiling CB, and the acceptor (Y6) solution in CF was slot‐die coated directly on top of the PM6 layer.
The high‐boiling solvent remains in the donor layer during the deposition of the acceptor layer, so the donor and acceptor blend well (donors move upward and acceptors move down) to achieve an ideal vertical phase distribution.
Different types of LbL devices have been successfully demonstrated, including polymer donor and small molecular acceptor pairs, all‐PSCs, and ternary OSCs.
The p–i–n vertical phase separation with enrichment of the donor near the anode and enrichment of the acceptor near the cathode with enhanced D and A layer crystalline ordering improves charge transport and extraction with reduced electron–hole recombination.
Because most NFAs with good solubility can be easily washed away during the casting of donor polymers on the top of NFAs, it is difficult to find an appropriate semi‐orthogonal solvent for the LbL processing of inverted OSCs.
In this study, we examined the use of atomic force microscopy (AFM) images to construct an ML model for predicting the PCE of polymer : non-fullerene molecular acceptor OPVs.
The GLCM and HA methods, such as homogeneity, correlation and skewness expand the scope of image analysis and artificial intelligence in materials science research fields.We incorporated atomic force microscopy images of polymer : non-fullerene acceptor organic photovoltaics into machine learning, where fast Fourier transform and grey-level co-occurrence matrix were utilized to predict power conversion efficiencies.
Consequently, lightweight and colour-tunable organic photovoltaics (OPVs) composed of binary and ternary organic semiconductors have assumed a prominent position in scientific inquiry and application to industries.1–3 Owing to recent advancements in high-performance p-type conjugated polymers and n-type non-fullerene acceptor molecules (NFA),4–6 the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPVs has significantly increased to nearly 20%.7–11 High performance is achieved through efficient photoenergy conversion processes comprising photoabsorption, exciton diffusion, charge separation and charge transport with minimal loss.12–15 One of the essential factors in facilitating these multi-physical phenomena is optimising the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure of a p/n-blended film, which is fabricated through a solution process, including a p/n blend ratio, solvent, additive and annealing.16–21 The resulting morphological and crystalline features of the BHJs are characterized by atomic force microscopy (AFM),22–24 transmission electron microscopy (TEM),25–27 X-ray diffractometry (XRD)28–30 and neutron scattering.31–33 Researchers typically assess the quality of the morphology based on observed domain size, surface roughness and uniformity.
Typically, OPV devices adopt the multi-layer structure, among which the light absorbing active layer is composed of two materials: an electron donor (conjugated polymers and/or small molecules) and an electron acceptor (typically fullerene derivatives).
Active layer morphologies of the blends of electron donors and acceptors play decisive roles on device performances.
In the current state-of-the-art single junction OPVs, electron donors and acceptors are simply mixed to form the so-called bulk heterojunction (BHJ) morphologies having interpenetrating networks with domain sizes on the order of 10–20 nm [11,12,13].
An ideal BHJ morphology maximizes the donor/acceptor interfacial areas and minimizes the distances through which excitons have to travel to reach an interface, while providing un-interrupted conduction pathways for both electron and holes towards corresponding electrodes.
These methods are time consuming and use trial and error approaches to find the optimal conditions for each combination of donor and acceptor materials, which may vary from system to system and lab to lab, and thus poses difficulties in repeatability and mass production.
Furthermore, the optimized donor/acceptor mixtures are at best in a thermodynamically meta-stable state that deteriorates over time and reduces the device long-term stability.
One of the most studied methodologies toward stable BHJs in polymer solar cells (PSCs) is self-assembly of conjugated block copolymers (BCPs) having electron acceptors selectively attached to one block [14,15,16,17,18,19].
An intriguing alternative approach is to attach fullerene acceptors onto conjugated polymer backbones non-covalently, by which fullerene loading percentages can be easily adjusted and solubility of the resulting complexes can be enhanced.
Extensive research efforts have thus been devoted to QD solar cells, especially organic/QD hybrid solar cells employing QDs as either electron donors or acceptors [37,38,39,40,41,42,43].
have recently studied the ligand shell effects on electronic properties of QDs and found that PDTC ligands act as hole acceptors when combined with CdSe QDs [51].
Recent advances in polymer donors and non-fullerene acceptors have produced organic photoactive layers (PAL) that give more than 15% PCE in single-junction solar cells1–3.
1) as model of a face-stacked polymer donor, and PCBM as model of an isotropic molecular acceptor.
PBDTTPD is donor‒acceptor (DA) polymer of the benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) family that has yielded record organic solar cell efficiencies16,17.
It comprises an electron-rich BDT donor moiety conjugated to an electron-deficient thiophene acceptor moiety.
PCBM provides a highly reliable photoinduced electron acceptor for PBDTTPD25–27.
It gives rise to a robust donor–acceptor morphology, and temperature-independent photogeneration efficiency, which greatly simplify device analysis.Fig.
As polymer donor, PBDTTPD provides a contrast to P3HT in its polymer backbone orientation.
Photothermal deflection spectroscopy indeed finds the optical DOS edge of “clean” polymer semiconductors is Gaussian out to 4σ, but charge transfer and polaron excitations can intervene in the presence of acceptors32–35.
We treat the polymer donor in the usual way as a series of MLs in thermal equilibrium with the electrode, taking into account image–charge polarization40,41 and electrostatic band bending11,42,43, but neglecting secondary influences from the opposite contact.
To develop a simple yet realistic DOS model to parametrize σ and σo, we treated the polymer donor as a distribution of conjugated segments, in the usual way, of length ℓ (in repeat units), each with own HOMO energy EHOMO.
{\frac{{dE_{{\mathrm{HOMO}}}}}{{d\ell }}} \right|_{\ell {\mathrm{ = < }}\ell > } = k_{B}T$$\end{document}dEHOMOdℓℓ=<ℓ>=kBT, and the hole-transport sites occupy 65 vol% of the donor matrix, which, in turn, occupies 50 vol% of the PAL.
4Computational study of DOS effects with semiempirical model.a DOS models for P3HT:PCBM (red line) and PBDTTPD:PCBM (blue), both at 50 vol% donor: solid, transport DOS; dotted, first-monolayer DOS.
a DOS models for P3HT:PCBM (red line) and PBDTTPD:PCBM (blue), both at 50 vol% donor: solid, transport DOS; dotted, first-monolayer DOS.
However, this leads to a significant variability presumably due to donor–acceptor morphology drift that degrades our experiment.
For efficient generation of free charge carriers, the donor–acceptor (D-A) conjugation has been adopted for two-dimensional (2D) COFs recently.
From this investigation, we elucidate that the polaron pair is formed through ultrafast intra-layer hole transfer coupled with coherent vibrations of the 2D lattice, suggesting a mechanism of phonon-assisted charge transfer.The donor–acceptor (D-A) conjugation has been adopted for two-dimensional (2D) covalent organic frameworks (COFs) for efficient generation of free charge carriers.
As a means of lowering the exciton-binding energy, researchers have recently developed 2D COFs consisting of two types of repeat units with different electron affinities7,8,21,22, borrowing the concept of low-bandgap polymers employing a donor–acceptor (D-A) conjugation scheme12,14.
In those D-A COFs, the repeat units with low and high electron affinities can serve as an electron donor and an electron acceptor, respectively.
According to previous studies of photoinduced charge carrier dynamics in D-A COFs21,22, it was suggested that light absorption induces charge transfer between each donor and acceptor units within 1.8 ps and the charges stay separated for up to 10 μs due to charge delocalization in two separate donor and acceptor arrays aligned perpendicular to stacked 2D layers.
Meanwhile, in a previous TA study on D-A COFs composed of zinc phthalocyanine and naphthalene diimide (i.e., ZnPc-NDI COFs)22, the earliest kinetic component with 1.8 ps time constant was observed and assigned to photoinduced electron transfer from ZnPc to NDI unit and subsequent inter-layer charge delocalization along separate donor and acceptor arrays perpendicular to stacked 2D layers.
Such an ultrafast intramolecular charge transfer driven by the torsional motion of π-bridge has been also observed in various donor-bridge-acceptor copolymers44,45.
Based on the population dynamics and the vibrational normal modes of COFs obtained from the quantum mechanical simulation, we conclude that the ultrafast dynamics observed in the fs-TA signal of 2D COFs originate from the ultrafast formation of polaron pair through hole migration between the constituent donor and acceptor units of COFs and such hole transfer is mediated by motions of lattice phonons.
In this work, by combining fs-TA spectroscopy and NA-MD simulation, we directly observed ultrafast dynamics of phonon-assisted, PDI-to-porphyrin hole transfer in 2D COFs consisting of covalently linked electron donor and acceptor units.
For this reason, many efforts have been made to obtain narrow band gap polymers by alternating electron-rich units (donor) and electron-deficient units (acceptor) covalently bonded within the same chain, it being known that the weak donors maintain a low HOMO energy level and the strong acceptors reduce the bandgap by promoting intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from donor to acceptor moieties [4,10,11].
This hindrance can be overcome using the active layer as BHJ, with this approach having the advantage of forming a larger donor–acceptor interface which increases the probability of excitons dissociation [22].
Generally, in the polymeric solar cells, the VOC value is linked to the offset between the HOMO level of the electron donor and the LUMO level of the electron acceptor [56].
Additionally, various studies report that the VOC value can be influenced by the donor/acceptor interface area, light intensity, defect state, crystallinity, morphology, etc.
The photo-active material is based on a majority blend composed of a visibly absorbing donor polymer and a fullerene acceptor, to which a selective near-infrared absorbing cyanine dye is added as a minority component.
As majority components we used a binary blend of the donor polymer poly[(4,8-bis-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-benzo(1,2-b:4,5-b’)dithiophene)-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexanoyl)-thieno[3,4-b]thiophene-)-2,6-diyl)], PBDTTT-C, and the acceptor [6, 6]-phenyl-C70-butyric acid methyl ester, PC70BM [13–15].
Ternary OSCs with multiple acceptor or donor materials have emerged as an effective strategy to overcome specific limitations of binary blend systems [14,23–27].
For ternary blend layers, the PC70BM concentration was kept constant at 15 mg ml−1 DCB, and the total donor concentration was kept at 10 mg ml−1 with varying fractions of PBDTTT-C and Cy7-T. Also for these films, DIO was added.
(c) Normalized absorption spectra (films on glass) of the electron donors and the acceptor material PC70BM.
Donor-π-acceptor conjugated polymers form the material basis for high power conversion efficiencies in organic solar cells.
Large dipole moment change upon photoexcitation via intramolecular charge transfer in donor-π-acceptor backbone is conjectured to facilitate efficient charge-carrier generation.
Here we use structure-sensitive femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy to demonstrate that π-bridge torsion forms the primary reaction coordinate for intramolecular charge transfer in donor-π-acceptor copolymers.
monitor real-time structural changes in donor-π-acceptor polymer backbone, and enumerate the role of π-bridge torsions during intramolecular charge transfer.
In recent years, facile chemical synthesis of low bandgap donor−acceptor copolymers has resulted in extending the window for solar light absorption in OPVs through hybridization of donor-type and acceptor-type molecular orbitals4–6.
The material design community has encountered a tremendous challenge in optimizing the charge generation efficiency in OPVs without having a well-defined structure−activity correlation for contemporary donor−acceptor copolymers.
Therefore, it is imperative to understand the fundamental limits of CT timescales and the energy associated with these CT states in the context of a given donor−acceptor backbone by tracking exciton dynamics.
Recent work from various groups have suggested that in donor-π-acceptor copolymers where the donor and acceptor moieties are separated by the π-bridge, intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) character in the excited state with large dipole moment promotes the formation of polaron pairs, the precursor state for charge carriers12, 13.
It has also been shown that spatial separation of the donor and acceptor groups by intervening bridge prolongs the recombination time of the charge pairs12.
1Energetics of photoinduced processes in neat low-bandgap donor-π-acceptor copolymers.
Energetics of photoinduced processes in neat low-bandgap donor-π-acceptor copolymers.
Banerji et al.30 who provided the first report on low bandgap polymer PCDTBT (poly[N-11′′-henicosanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-thienyl-2′.1′.3′-benzothiadiazole)]) demonstrated about 200 fs Stokes shift in emission concomitant with loss in anisotropy suggesting an ultrafast relaxation mechanism in the donor-π-acceptor backbone.
Additionally, the role of the structural elements in the donor-π-acceptor backbone has not been addressed directly thus precluding any information about the ICT RCs.
Recently, Sophia Hayes and co-workers reported transient Raman signatures of donor-π-acceptor copolymer in their exciton and polaronic states37.
They observed 1–3 ps evolution of the exciton to a partial charge transfer state within the donor and acceptor units which however is much slower than the expected torsional dynamics of the backbone14, 26.
In order to observe the ultrafast generation of the ICT exciton and its structural imprints in the transient Raman measurements, here we chose diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)-based low bandgap polymer with a defined molecular π-bridge in between the donor and acceptor units as shown in Fig. 2a.
The thiophene unit in the TDPP part acts as a structural π-bridge to electronically couple the donor benzobithiophene (BBT) and the acceptor DPP units (see Fig. 2a).
TDPP-BBT class of low bandgap polymers has typically an absorption range in the visible due to well-coupled acceptor DPP and donor BBT42.
The thiophene unit which is an intrinsic part of the TDPP unit serves as a structural bridge between DPP and BBT thereby avoiding any steric repulsion between the side-chains on the individual donor and acceptor units12, 38, 43.
It also enables long-range charge separation between the donor and acceptor so as to ensure long-lived charge transfer states as has been reported in other donor-π-acceptor copolymers12.
Such kind of mid-bandgap emission is typical in many donor−acceptor copolymers42, 44, 45, and have been explained by ground state heterogeneity in the polymeric solution44.
These chromophore-specific modes present an excellent opportunity to probe the torsional dynamics of the donor-π-acceptor backbone in the excited state.
Our results here on TDPP-BBT donor-π-acceptor copolymers are analogous to that obtained for PTB7 polymer by Faulvell et al.
The DPP C=C stretch mode at 1509 cm−1 however showed about 2 ps blue-shift indicating a rate dispersion in cooling timescales in the respective donor and acceptor moieties (Fig.
Since the conjugation in the excited state has increased as evident from frequency shifts, the enhanced Raman activity of 1228 cm−1 relative to the C=C stretch in the excited FSRS spectra therefore is directly assigned to the planarization of donor-π-acceptor backbone via rotation of the thiophene structural bridge.
To summarize, our FSRS data therefore strongly hint towards a unified picture that the hot ICT states are generated by low frequency torsional motions coupled to high frequency modes of the donor-π-acceptor backbone.
Our TA and FSRS data provide unequivocal evidence for formation of the ICT as well as the polaron pair states in the donor-π-acceptor backbone of TDPP-BBT polymer.
In addition this short time window for charge extraction provides insight into polymer lengthscale (lower than 2 nm) near the electrode interface which can directly contribute to charges without added acceptors.Fig.
Our work supports the observation reported by Zhu and co-workers that hot CT excitons even at donor−acceptor interfaces can be generated in organic materials within 200–300 fs and thereby setting the fundamental time limit for charge generation18.
The direct observation of a thiophene bridge rotation in the D-π-A backbone as probed through our time-resolved Raman snapshots allows for the electronic coupling between the donor and acceptor moiety in the backbone.
In fact our data also support the hypothesis laid out previously by Scholes and co-workers for the donor−acceptor polymer PCDTBT26.
We believe that resonance FSRS measurements on variety of donor-π-acceptor copolymers will enumerate directly the motions that drive the exciton relaxation, polaron pair generation, charge localization and energy hopping through chains.
have shown the significance of selective vibrational modes in charge transfer in donor–bridge–acceptor assemblies62, 63.
The ground state planarity of donor-acceptor backbone along with the polymer persistence length plays a critical role in determining both the absorption cross-section64 and the photoinduced exciton dynamics12, thereby affecting the charge generation yields65.
Most of the contemporary donor-π-acceptor polymers which show high power conversion efficiency have conjugated π-bridges that dynamically influence the coupling between donor and acceptor units12, 41, 66.
Our results here clearly demonstrate that in TDPP class of donor-π-acceptor polymers the bridge torsion timescale plays an important role and sets a benchmark for charge generation.
Therefore, rational designs of donor-π-acceptor polymers based on our proposed dynamical framework will not only allow for long-range separation between donor and acceptor moieties but also gate the timescale of the charge transfer process by appropriate choice of π-bridge.
In summary, we have probed the primary reactive motion that drives the exciton relaxation-induced ICT in the donor-π-acceptor backbone of TDPP-BBT polymer.
The observed cooling in the donor and acceptor vibrational modes by 1–10 ps underlies the fundamental nature of the ICT exciton that is created after excitation.
Thus the generation of the hot delocalized ICT state by a thiophene bridge motion in about 400 fs provides phenomenological insight into the charge generation and relaxation dynamics in generic donor-π-acceptor polymers.
Asymmetric phthalocyanines containing electron acceptor and donor groups create high photovoltaic conversion efficiency in dye sensitized solar cells.
The potential of this compound in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) photovoltaic devices as donor was also researched as function of blend ratio (blend ratio was varied from 0.5 to 4).
The efficiency of photovoltaic organic solar cells is greatly increased by adding of the bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) term [4–8], an active fragment where electron acceptor and donor materials are blended in a solution and placed into a thin film sandwiched between two electrodes.
Some polymer types have been preferred as electron donor in solar cell studies [16].
Fullerenes and their derivatives, which have been widely preferred as electron acceptor materials in OSCs and the poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) as the electron donor, are among the most widely used materials for industrialization in BHJ solar cell technology [17].
Consequently, when photoexcited, Pcs are capable of acting either as lectron-acceptors when linked to donor systems such as polythiophenes [19] or electron-donors when they are connected to suitable electron-acceptor groups such as fullerenes [20].
Although significant progress has been made for high-performance BHJ solar cells with P3HT, it has some disadvantages, such as a restricted absorption wavelength [21]; hence, there is an obligation to improve new donor materials having larger absorption in the red region.
For this purpose, Pcs are commonly used as donor compounds in solar cells.
When the UV-Vis spectra of compounds 1 and 2 are compared, the shift observed between the Q band absorption peaks is caused by the reduction of the -NO2 groups in the peripheral positions to the electron donor -NH2 groups.
In order to evaluate the photovoltaic performance of 4  in BHJ solar cells as donor and the effect of the blend ratio on the main performance parameters, a series of BHJ devices with FTO/PEDOT:PSS/ 4 :PCBM blend/Al structure were fabricated and characterized.
During the fabrication and characterization studies, the ratio of PCBM was fixed at 1, and the ratio of donor ( 4)  was varied from 0.5 to 4.0 because of its well-known critical impact on the device performance [32].
It is well known that P3HT and PCBM are frequently preferred donor and acceptor substances in BHJ devices.
More recent reports on planar heterojunction [37] as well as bulk heterojunction solar cells [38–40] have shown that the open circuit voltage is strongly dependent on the difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor materials.
It is proposed that the nanoscale morphology of the two components (donor/acceptor) in the photoactive layer and the efficient separation of charges at the donor– acceptor interface in bilayer planar and non-planar metal Pc/ C60 solar cells are also crucial in determining the V OC value.
They were reported that the open circuit voltage associated with the charge-carrier recombination rates, donor-acceptor energy gap, contact work functions, illumination intensity, and the amount of energetic disorder.
A reasonable explanation for the observed ratio dependence has been given by the eutectic phase behavior of donor and acceptor blends and suggested that morphology at the optimum composition ratio is slightly hypoeutectic [43,44].
To access efficient exciton dissociation in BHJ devices, the randomly oriented donor acceptor interfaces are employed, and the performance of the devices are determined by the morphology of the donor-acceptor interface [45,46], the molecular orientation, and aggregation behavior [47,48].
The obtained J−V characteristics for devices with a fixed donor material and different fullerene-based acceptor materials indicated that, as the acceptor with higher lowest unoccupied molecular orbital level is employed, the open circuit voltage becomes larger due to the increased effective band gap [54].
More recently, many theoretical and experimental studies on BHJ have shown that the V OC is independent of the choice of cathode materials and depends on various factors including, energetic disorder in active layer, donor-acceptor energy gap, and rate of charge recombination [55–57].
They reported that donor:acceptor blends with ratios of 1.0:0.5, 1.0:0.8, and 1.0:2.0 exhibit differing microstructure during solidification.
Unsymmetrical zinc phthalocyanine ( 4 ) bearing thiophene and amine groups as donor was successfully synthesized as confirmed by FT-IR, UV-Vis, 1H-NMR, and MALDI-TOF MS.
Bulk heterojunction solar cell devices using blended 4 :PCBM with eight different donors: acceptor ratios have been fabricated and characterized.
It was also found that the ratio of donor: acceptor has a significant effect on the photovoltaic behavior of the devices.
This is especially true in the case of viologen cations.24−26 Viologen-based perovskites possess interesting electronic properties, stemming from charge transfer processes between the inorganic Pb–I framework and the electron acceptor cations.27 Among them, phenyl viologen lead iodide (PhVPI) was recently synthesized, demonstrating remarkable thermal stability, insensitivity to water at ambient temperature and an optical band gap of 1.34 eV, lower than methyl viologen lead iodide (2.0 eV) due to phenyl viologen having a more extended conjugation.28 These properties, coupled to the easy synthesis and solution processability (it is soluble in aprotic polar solvents, such as DMF) make PhVPI a valuable candidate for optoelectronic applications.
DACT-II consists of electron donor diphenylaminocarbazole and electron-acceptor triphenyltriazine moieties and exhibits ICT characteristics.
The obtained DACT-II was consisted of chemically bonded diphenylaminocarbazole (charge donor) and triphenyltriazine (charge acceptor) moieties.
High boiling point solvent additives introduce an interpenetrating network of donor and acceptor in the films and change the device degradation mechanism from a short‐circuit current dominated one to a open‐circuit voltage dominated degradation.
Solvent additives are widely used to modify the morphology of BHJ films to achieve a good interpenetrating network of donor/acceptor (D/A) materials for an improved exciton dissociation and charge transport.
[  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  24 ,  25 ,  26  ] A solvent additive usually has two features, namely that the boiling point is higher than that of the host solvents, and one component of the donor and acceptor blend is selectively dissolved in the solvent additive.
[  20  ] In the present work, poly[(5,6‐difluoro‐2,1,3‐benzothiadiazol‐4,7‐diyl)‐alt‐(3,3′′′‐di(2‐octyldodecyl)‐2,2′,5′,2′′,5′′,2′′′‐quaterthiophen‐5,5′′′‐diyl)] (PffBT4T‐2OD) and [6,6]‐phenyl‐C71‐butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) are chosen as the donor and acceptor materials, respectively.
It has been claimed that solvent additives, having a high boiling point and selectively dissolving PC71BM, provide a better integration of the PC71BM molecules into the donor polymer aggregates.
[  44 ,  46  ] The more pronounced interpenetration between donor and acceptor molecules in the system with an additive gives less opportunity for the migration of molecules, which can explain the more stable BHJ morphology for devices with DIO and CBA additive.
It was demonstrated that the donor crystallites with extended π‐conjugation could cause a slight increase of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of the donors and therefore result in a decrease of the V oc value.
In case of PffBT4T‐2OD:PC71BM solar cells, doping with solvent additives helps to obtain more donor and acceptor interpenetrating networks in the BHJ layers to form a stable morphology, which is reflected by a stable FF.
However, solvent additives also can cause competition between forming a D/A interpenetrating network and crystallite growth in the donor polymer molecules.
The absorption layers were deposited using donor and acceptor small materials to create a well‐mixed junction (BHJ[  8  ]) or a layered junction (PHJ[  31  ]).
As a donor material, a novel donor–π–acceptor molecule (PSe) was used, which consisted of two fused‐type heterocyclic donors and an electron‐accepting unit.
As an acceptor, the well‐known fullerene was used.
Due to the optical resonance in OPD, incident light is absorbed maximally through the photoelectric conversion layer, and incident photons are effectively converted to electrons in each junction interface of the donor and acceptor molecules.
The selenophene linked donor material (PSe) was synthesized in the laboratory.
[  32  ] C60 as the acceptor material was purchased from Frontier Carbon Coup.
AbstractThe reported power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) based organic photovoltaics (OPVs) now exceed 14% and 17% for single‐junction and two‐terminal tandem cells, respectively.
Organic nonfullerene acceptor (NFA) molecules have nowadays successfully replaced their fullerene counterparts in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) while offering the potential for large‐scale industrial production and commercialization.1 In the past few years rapid progress has been made in the development of a variety of NFAs, including both polymeric and small molecule organics.
These NFAs have been paired with donor materials in a variety of OPV device platforms including single‐junction and multijunction solar cells.2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 The best power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of OPVs have exceeded 14% in single‐junction devices2, 4 and over 17% in two‐terminal (2T) tandem devices.3 Compared to fullerene acceptor–based devices, they exhibit not only higher PCE but also improved morphological and photochemical stability,2, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 while offering significant promise for further performance improvement.13 To enable further performance increases, the factors limiting the OPV efficiency must be identified.
performed drift‐diffusion simulations and explicitly included charge carrier mobility in their estimates of achievable efficiencies, predicting a maximum PCE of ≈22% for material systems with carrier mobility values of >10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1, and a LUMO–LUMO offset of 0.2 eV.20 In the latter work, however, the workers assumed complete absorption of photons in the AM1.5G spectrum with energies larger than the bandgap of the donor material.
Here, we assume realistic absorption profiles for the donor and NFA acceptor materials with varying bandgaps.
To this end, we explicitly show that NFA‐based OPV cells with active layer thickness down to 100 nm could reach PCE values in excess of 18%, if the active layer can be designed to combine broad optical absorption (achievable by combining a donor and an acceptor with bandgaps of 1.7 and 2 eV, respectively) with a balanced hole and electron mobility value of 5 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1, and a nongeminate recombination rate constant (k) of 1 × 10−12 cm3 s−1.
a) Molecular structure of donor (D) and acceptor (A) materials used in this study.
The numerical simulator utilizes transfer matrix modelling to determine the layer specific charge generation profile and numerically solves the drift‐diffusion equations, which include charge recombination (nongeminate) and extraction effects to simulate the J–V curve.16 The active layer of the BHJ solar cell is modelled using an effective medium approximation that considers the BHJ as a single‐phase material (the real interfaces between donor and acceptor are not explicitly considered).
The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the effective semiconductor BHJ (HOMOBHJ) is taken as the HOMO value of the polymer donor, while the LUMO of the effective semiconductor BHJ layer (LUMOBHJ) is taken as the LUMO value of the NFA (Figure  2 a).
In order to predict the performance of single‐junction NFA OPVs based on active layers with different absorption spectra [by varying the optical band gap of the donor (E opt,D) and acceptor (E opt,A) materials within the BHJ], we generated absorption profiles of all active layers considered in this study using a linear combination of the extinction coefficient of the NFA and the donor materials, respectively (see example in Figure  3 ).
As illustrated in Figure 3b and Figure S5 (Supporting Information), shifting the donor and NFA bandgaps allows facile tuning of the onset of absorption of the active layer from which the value for E opt,lowest can be inferred.
a) Example of how the extinction coefficient spectra of BHJ active layer considered in this study was produced from a linear combination of the extinction coefficient of donor (PBDT(T)[2F]T) and acceptor (ITIC).
b) Generated extinction coefficient spectra of several BHJ films used for the simulation and obtained by shifting the spectra of donor from 2.2 to 1.2 eV and using the spectra of NFA with bandgap of 1.2 eV.
To account for the V OC in our simulation, we used the LUMO energy of the NFA and the HOMO energy level of the donor to define the charge transfer state energy (E CT) using(1)ECT=LUMOBHJ−HOMOBHJ
Furthermore, to assure that the formation of type‐II heterojunction is established between the donor and the NFA, we set the following two conditions: i) In the case of E opt,D ≥ E opt,A, HOMO offset between donor and NFA is kept to 0.05 eV; ii) in the case of E opt,D ≤ E opt,A, LUMO offset between donor and NFA is kept to 0.05 eV.
Figure S6 (Supporting Information) provides further details on how the HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO level of the NFA are defined in this work.
OPV performance metrics for representative high‐performance polymer donor:NFA photoactive blends.
This prediction is particularly true for combinations of a donor (or NFA) and an NFA (or donor) with bandgaps of ≈1.7 and ≈2 eV, respectively (Figure 4b and Figure S7, Supporting Information).
To this end, broad absorption can, in principle, be facilitated by combining a wide bandgap donor with lower bandgap NFA material or vice versa.2, 4, 21, 22 However, one must always take into consideration the importance of maintaining optimum balance between the J SC gain, due to enhanced absorption, and V OC reduction owned to the use of narrower bandgap materials.
For example, close analysis of Figure 4a reveals that for a donor bandgap of <1.4 eV, the JSC gains are not sufficient to outweigh the concurrent reduction in V OC resulting to an overall reduction in PCE.
Interestingly, even when the absorption of the donor and NFA materials overlap (Figure 4b), the cell's PCE remain relatively high and >10%.
A further noticeable observation in Figure 4b is that the predicted PCE for OPVs based on wide bandgap (E opt > 1.8 eV) donor and NFA materials can exceed 17% due to the characteristically high V OC (>1.3 V) (Figure S7, Supporting Information), a value that has yet to be achieved/reported.
a) Evolution of the figures of merit of a single‐junction OPV device as a function of donor optical bandgap (E opt,D) with NFA optical bandgap (E opt,A) of 2.0 eV.
b) Efficiency prediction (plotted in color scale, with numbers on the contour lines representing PCE in %) for NFA OPVs as a function of the donor and NFA bandgap (E opt,D and E opt,A).
For this simulation, we set the active layer bandgap at the optimal value of 1.7 eV for the donor and 2 eV for the NFA while assuming equal hole and electron mobilities (μh = μe) for both material components.
Development of high mobility solution‐processed BHJ layers for OPVs, however, is a challenging task since both donor and NFA materials must form a bi‐continuous and interpenetrating network with reasonably small domain sizes (≈20 nm).
On the other hand, planar molecules with extended conjugation are prone to phase separation, which in turn reduce the donor/NFA interface area required for efficient exciton dissociation.13, 47 Thus, in order to achieve the optimal BHJ layer morphology, the high carrier mobilities are often sacrificed by reducing the coplanarity of the conjugated molecules.
Therefore, a critical challenge for current NFA‐based OPVs is to develop donor and NFA materials with balanced hole and electron mobility that exceeds 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1 while avoiding strong phase separation upon blending.
To this end, the range of experimentally measured k values for fullerene‐based BHJ solar cells is between 10−13 to 10−10 cm3s−1 16 with the nongeminate recombination rate being determined, primarily, by the area of the donor/NFA heterointerface.51 This conclusion is in accordance with a recent study of the recombination processes in ternary polymer/polymer or polymer/fullerene BHJs where more phase‐separated blends were shown to exhibit lower nongeminate k values.52, 53 However, approaches to reducing k are not clearly laid out at present.
As shown in Figure  7 a, the absorption profiles of the donor/NFA BHJ systems used for the front and back‐cells, were set to overlap by selecting their optical bandgaps as 2 and 1.4 eV, respectively.
a) Absorption profiles considered for two‐terminal tandem OPV calculations with the front‐ and back‐cell optical bandgaps (E opt,DA) of 2 and 1.4 eV, respectively (donor and NFA absorptions in both cells were considered to overlap).
Our simulations predict that carefully engineered tandem cells may achieve PCE values of over 25% if the electron (μe) and hole (μh) mobilities in the donor and acceptor materials used for the individual subcells are balanced (μe = μh) and ≥10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1, while k remains low and around 10−12 cm3 s−1.
Herein, two PTV-derivatives, PTVT-V and PTVT-T, were used as donor materials to fabricate IOPV cells with ITCC as the acceptor.
In our previous reports, we found that the PTV-derivatives, which have simple structure molecules and exhibit low-cost feature, can work well with the widely used non-fullerene-based acceptors (Bi et al., 2020; Ren et al., 2021), and they may become potential candidates in the application of IOPV.
In this work, IOPV cells with two PTV-derivatives, named PTVT-V and PTVT-T, as the donors, and a wide bandgap acceptor, ITCC, as the acceptor were fabricated, respectively.
For the two donors, PTVT-V prefers edge-on orientation and PTVT-T shows face-on dominated orientation.
It can be clearly observed that the donors/acceptor materials show absorption spectrum covering the visible range of 450–700 nm, which could meet the requirements of the absorption capability for IOPV application.
The donors and the acceptor show well matched energy levels and the HOMO levels of PTVT-V and PTVT-T are on the same level, which is −5.36 and −5.38 eV, respectively.
According to the absorption spectra, an excitation light at 500 nm was used to mainly excite the donors of PTVT-V and PTVT-T.
The faster decay time means that the charge transfer between donor and acceptor in PTVT-T:ITCC is more efficient than the system of PTVT-V:ITCC, resulting in smaller charge recombination in the system of PTVT-T:ITCC (Bi et al., 2019).
JR synthesized the donor materials.
The combination of the EIS properties of G1PPT-co-P3HT and its highly electron-donating capability in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) active layer containing a perylene derivative, as demonstrated by photoluminescence quenching coupled to the observed Förster Resonance charge transfer, suggests its suitability as an electron-donor material for optoelectronic and photovoltaic devices.
The active layer consists of an intermixed donor: acceptor bulk heterojunction blends.
The prepared donor:acceptor solutions in chloroform (50 µL) were spin-coated on the PEDOT:PSS at 900 rpm for 105 s, dried on a hot plate at 80 °C for 10 min and the edges were cleaned using chloroform.
Although the main device of interest is based on G1PPT-co-P3HT/PDI-co-Carbazole (2:1) bulk heterojunction blend, three other devices based on G1PPT-co-P3HT: PC61BM (1:2), P3HT: PDI-co-Carbazole (2:1), and P3HT:PC61BM (2:1) were also fabricated to investigate the photovoltaic characteristics of each prepared copolymer with respect to well-known widely used P3HT and PCBM as donor and acceptor, respectively.
The blends were prepared in the ratio 1:1, 1:2, and 1:3 and investigated with reference to pristine donor G1PPT-co-P3HT (donor) and pristine acceptor PDI-co-Carbazole (acceptor).
Indeed, as the amount of PDI-co-Carbazole with respect to G1PPT-co-P3HT was increased in the ratios 1:1, 1:2, and 1:3, the red shift of the blends with respect to the donor were 57, 69, and 75 nm in 1:1, 1:2, and 1:3, respectively.
Fluorescence of pristine G1PPT-co-P3HT and PDI-co-Carbazole are presented in Figure 8 Upon excitation of D-A blends, total quenching of the donor is observed, characterized by the complete disappearance of the G1PPT-co-P3HT fluorescence emission peak initially exhibited by the pristine material at 551 nm, an indication that there is essentially no radiative exciton decay in the blend [68].
The total disappearance of the donor fluorescence peak coupled to the increase in acceptor intensity peaks suggest that there is also a Fluorescence or Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) from the donor to the acceptor [69].
This is further confirmed by the emission spectrum of the donor overlapping the acceptor absorption spectrum [70] as shown in Figure 9.
We also suspect that this energy transfer is followed by non-radiative recombination [69] considering the increase in acceptor peak intensity as mentioned above.
Indeed, the spectral overlap of the donor, G1PPT-co-P3HT emission spectrum, and the acceptor, PDI-co-carbazole absorption spectrum, was a sign of an energy transfer.
Mostly, the increase in fluorescence intensity peak of the acceptor suggested that non-radiative recombination occurs [73].
In order to achieve good charge-carrier generation, the interface between the donor and the acceptor should be large enough and an efficient charge extraction should be allowed by the networks in the blend of donor and acceptor polymers [76].
Precise morphology parameters, including the van der Waals crystal packing of the donor and acceptor polymers; and the formation of nanoscale domains of the two phases, are strongly dependent on the donor and acceptor blend ratio, the solvents used, processing conditions, and finally post-production treatment [77].
AbstractThe donor/acceptor interaction in non‐fullerene organic photovoltaics leads to the mixing domain that dictates the morphology and electronic structure of the blended thin film.
Different fullerenes acceptors are used to manipulate the feature of mixing domain.
The introduction of a third component is an effective approach to optimize the morphology of the donor (D): acceptor (A) mixing region.
added [6,6]‐phenyl‐C71‐butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) in an all‐small‐molecule system that helped to form appropriate phase separation by adjusting the crystallization of non‐fullerene acceptors, achieving sufficient exciton dissociation.
Modified fullerene acceptors (FAs) have been used to manipulate the properties of the mixing domain.
For PM6:Y6:Bis‐FAs ternary devices (T‐Bis‐FAs devices), the EQE in 300–400 and 500–600 nm regions gets improved slightly, which is attributed to the FAs absorption and better carrier extraction capability from the donor materials.
[  10  ] A 750 nm excitation was used to pump the Y6 acceptor only to study the Y6 to PM6 hole‐transfer.
The higher EHOMO value indicates higher tendency of the molecule to donate electron (s) to the appropriate acceptor species with low energy and empty/partially filled atomic/molecular orbitals.
It is well established, that in such systems the -OH group is an electron donor and -COOH group is an electron acceptor.
Therefore, the THPP derivative has a higher tendency to donate electrons than TCPP, which may have significant electron acceptor character.
The conjugated molecules are characterized by small HOMO, LUMO seperation, which is the result of a significant degree of charge transfer from end-capping electron-donor groups to the efficient electron acceptor groups through π–conjugated path.
In clearly indicated the role of electron donor and electron acceptor substituents in porphyrin rings on magnetic properties of graphene oxide.
We successfully developed a simple and effective method for preparing porphyrin-GO hybrids that have donor-acceptor properties and are characterized by the charge transfer between porphyrin and graphene oxide.
This effect is attributed to subtle tuning of graphene domain magnetism induced by electron density modulation by electron donor or electron acceptor substituents.
Fullerene derivatives have been widely used for conventional acceptor materials in organic photovoltaics (OPVs) because of their high electron mobility.
However, there are also considerable drawbacks for use in OPVs, such as negligible light absorption in the visible-near-IR regions, less compatibility with donor polymeric materials and high cost for synthesis and purification.
Therefore, the investigation of non-fullerene acceptor materials that can potentially replace fullerene derivatives in OPVs is increasingly necessary, which gives rise to the possibility of fabricating all-polymer (polymer/polymer) solar cells that can deliver higher performance and that are potentially cheaper than fullerene-based OPVs.
Recently, considerable attention has been paid to donor-acceptor (D-A) block copolymers, because of their promising applications as fullerene alternative materials in all-polymer solar cells.
To date, polymer/fullerene (fullerene-based) OPVs, in which the active layers are composed of hole-transporting (i.e., donor (D)) polymeric materials and electron-transporting (i.e., acceptor (A)) fullerene derivatives, have achieved power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of over 10% (Figure 1A) [7].
Four fundamental steps of the energy conversion process are as follows: (i) absorption of light and generation of excitons in the donor domains; (ii) diffusion of the excitons to the donor-acceptor (D-A) interfaces (the exciton diffusion lengths before recombination are ca.
[13–15] developed the controlled polymerization of regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) by Grignard metathesis (GRIM) polymerization separately; since then, a number of regioregular polythiophene-based donor-type block copolymers have been developed [16–21].
Furthermore, detailed investigations have been carried out on the nanomorphology derived from their well-defined polymer structures (Mw/Mn ~ 1.1–1.3) and their applications as donor materials in OPVs.
Quite recently, block copolymers composed of both donor and acceptor segments (D-A block copolymers) have been of interest, because of their potential applications as acceptor materials instead of fullerene derivatives in OPVs [27–31].
In contrast to donor materials, the fullerene derivative, PCBM, is the only conventional acceptor material for OPVs.
However, there are also considerable drawbacks for use in OPVs: (i) negligible light absorption in the visible-near-IR regions; (ii) less compatibility with donor polymeric materials; and (iii) high cost for synthesis and purification.
The investigation of non-fullerene acceptor materials that can potentially replace PCBM in OPVs is, thus, increasingly necessary, which gives rise to the possibility of fabricating all-polymer (polymer/polymer) solar cells (Figure 1B).
All-polymer solar cells offer potential advantages over conventional fullerene-based OPVs, such as more efficient light absorption due to the acceptor polymer and relatively high open-circuit voltages [32].
Although D-A block copolymer characteristics, like electron-transporting properties derived from acceptor blocks, broad light absorption and nanomorphology derived from the D-A block structure, can be considered to be ideal for use as OPV acceptor materials, the number of D-A block copolymers is still limited, because of their synthetic difficulties.
Bock copolymers with acceptor pendant units were synthesized using one of the following two techniques: (i) synthesis of block copolymers using monomers with acceptor pendant units; and (ii) synthesis of block copolymer precursors, followed by the post-modification to incorporate acceptor pendant units.
reported the synthesis of poly(bisphenyl-4-vinylphenylamine)-block-poly(perylene diimide acrylate) (PvTPA-b-PPerAcr, P1), poly(bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-4’-vinylphenylamine)-block-poly(perylene diimide acrylate) (PvDMTPA-b-PPerAcr, P2) and poly(N,N’-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-N-phenyl-N’-4-vinylphenyl-(1,1’-biphenyl)-4,4’-diamine)-block-poly(perylene diimide acrylate) (PvDMTPD-b-PPerAcr, P3) using the monomer with acceptor pendant units through nitroxide-mediated polymerization (NMP) (Figure 3) [33,34].
The molecular weight of polymers and PPerAcr acceptor block contents were controlled using macroinitiators with various molecular weights.
P4 with molecular weight (PPerAcr acceptor block contents) in the range of 16,100 (53.2%)–24,800 (81.4%) was successfully synthesized by varying the reaction time and the ratio of the P3HT-based macroinitiator and PPerAcr monomer.
Furthermore, AFM observation exhibited that both the donor and acceptor components of the block copolymer self-stacked into lamellar nanostructures in the solid state.
Vinyl or acrylate-based monomers usually applied for living chain-growth polymerization and various click chemistry, were utilized for the synthesis of D-A block copolymers with acceptor pedant units.
Accordingly, a polymer architecture where donor and acceptor main chain blocks are directly connected without insulator units (fully conjugated D-A block copolymers) was considered to be ideal for solar cell applications.
Donor and acceptor blocks with their respective end-functional groups are prepared in the first reaction, and the second reaction is carried out between donor and acceptor blocks to yield fully conjugated block copolymers.
reported a facile one-pot synthesis of fully conjugated D-A-D triblock copolymers composed of a poly(3-hexylthiophene) donor and cyano-substituted poly(phenylenevinylene) acceptor blocks (P8–P10) (Figure 9) [41].
AFM observation revealed the formation of nanosized spherical aggregates with a diameter of 60–90 nm, which were derived from the crystallization of poly(3-hexylthiophene) blocks, whereas the P3HT/acceptor homopolymer physical mixture exhibited irregular nanostructures with larger domains compared to the block copolymers.
The synthesis of fully conjugated D-A block copolymers was prepared in a one-step reaction by adding P3HT and monomers for the acceptor blocks at the same time.
also demonstrated the synthesis of a conjugated D-A-D triblock copolymer with a naphthalene bisimide (NBI)-based acceptor block (P15) (Figure 12) [45].
reported the successful synthesis of fully conjugated D-A diblock copolymers composed of a P3HT donor and diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP)-based acceptor blocks under Stille coupling reaction conditions (P16) (Figure 13) [46].
The covalent bond between the donor and acceptor blocks resulted in clear microphase separation without any aggregation.
The self-assembly behavior of donor-acceptor block copolymers has been utilized in solar cell applications.
Furthermore, poly(3-alkylthiophene) is commonly used as donor blocks in most cases, which can limit the diversity of the design of acceptor blocks.
For example, donor blocks with lower HOMO levels can be useful for a single-component solar cell application, because this might lead to a larger Voc, resulting in the improvement of the PCE.
Thus, if promising donor blocks instead of poly(3-alkylthiophene) are discovered, the tuning of the polymer properties (e.g., light absorption properties, electrochemical properties, solubility and crystallinity) would be easier, which would also be helpful in finding the ideal D-A block copolymers, leading to the realization of high-performance all-polymer solar cells.
Additionally, they show a synergetic interplay of donor–acceptor, π–π, and n–π interactions, which are the basis for the affinity of our novel receptors toward C60.
The spherical shape of fullerene has been the subject of several important properties (such as electron acceptor, charge transfer, a main member in the solar spectrum and photoexcitation, and many other properties).
A great deal of work has been published on the systems in which C60 was particularly used as an electron acceptor.9−13 As a result, several studies14−23 such as complexation between C60 and calix[n]arenes and calixarene derivatives and use of other techniques (UV and NMR spectroscopy) to determine the stoichiometry and some thermodynamic parameters have been devoted to the importance of this system and encourage us to study the interaction between C60 and different types of electron donors (thiacrown ethers, TCEs).
Our design involves changes in dimension, rigidity, and variation of the type of ligating donor atom like sulfur and nitrogen atoms at the periphery of the host.
Two factors that control the stability causing more favored host–guest interactions of the C60:crown complexes: (1) the macrocyclic cavity size where it was found that the stability of the complexes is higher as the cavity size of thiacrown ether matches the C60 size and/or (2) the type of the donor atoms at the border of the crown part57 when oxygen atom(s) is (are) replaced by sulfur or nitrogen atom(s).
Therefore, it will be worthwhile to explore the underlying host–guest interaction for a specific guest fullerene (C60) by altering the donor atom(s) and the cavity size of thiacrown ethers (TCEs).
Ashram has recently reported the synthesis of the crown ethers 1–6 (CE1–CE6) as shown in Figure 3.58,59 Owing to the cavity sizes and different donor atoms (O, N, and S atoms) to form host–guest complexes, some of these thiacrown ethers have the ability to incubate some transition metals.
Thus, the existence of this new band must be associated with the formation of donor–acceptor molecular complexes between thiacrown ethers 1–6 and C60 in the solution.
The stability constant values are generally considered to be an indication of the stability of the complex between the donor and acceptor, i.e., the strength of acceptor–donor interaction.
Such factors include the size of the guest, the identity of the donor atoms, and a macrocyclic effect that involves the dimensional compatibility between the macrocycle and the size of the guest.
This could be due to the larger cavity size and the number of sulfur atoms, which are a better-donating base toward neutral acceptors.62,63 (b) The higher flexibility of 2 enables the cavity of these compounds to wrap around C60 and cause stronger interactions.
(c) In all cases, the stability constant values increase as the cavity size and the number of donor atoms increase.
The calculated EB gives a good indication of the better exciton dissociation at the junction of the donor–acceptor material and how the improvement of solar cell characteristics is.
In the larger size of cavity, the presence of sulfur atoms (TCE2 and TCE3) has the effect of lowering the energy levels compared to nitrogen atoms (TCE5 and TCE6), generating a HOMO interface offset, ΔEHOMO, and a consequential decrease in VOC in combination with the C60 acceptor (Table 4 and Figure 9).
It is demonstrated that several factors affect the stability of the complex formation such as the cavity size, the type and number of donor atoms, and the flexibility of the cavity.
The open-circuit voltage was calculated using eq 6.436where e is the elementary charge and 0.3 eV is an empirical factor, a quantity related to the quasi-Fermi energies of electrons and holes of the acceptor and donor materials.41 The ionization potential (IP) was estimated using the negative of the EHOMO based on Koopman’s theorem.78
To analyze the intermolecular interactions between the filled donor and empty acceptor in the systems, the second-order perturbation theory analysis of the Fock matrix in the natural bond orbital (NBO)82 analysis is performed on the optimized electronic densities using the NBO program, as implemented in the Gaussian 16 package.83 Intermolecular interactions such as lone pair (Lp) or π-bond → antibonding (π*) orbital mixtures are representative of donor–acceptor bonding.
For each donor NBO(i) and acceptor NBO(j), the stabilization energy E2 associated with electron delocalization between the donor and acceptor is estimated as7where qi is the orbital occupancy, εi and εj are the diagonal elements, and Fi, j is the off-diagonal NBO Fock matrix element.
Herein, a small-molecule donor is designed and synthesized, and single-crystal structural analyses reveal its explicit molecular planarity and compact intermolecular packing.
A promising narrow bandgap small-molecule with absorption edge of more than 930 nm along with our home-designed small molecule is selected as electron acceptors.
To the best of our knowledge, the binary all-small-molecule OSCs achieve the highest efficiency of 14.34% by optimizing their hierarchical morphologies, in which the donor or acceptor rich domains with size up to ca.
70 nm, and the donor crystals of tens of nanometers, together with the donor-acceptor blending, are proved coexisting in the hierarchical large domain.
Currently, considerable progress in the design and synthesis of efficient non-fullerene acceptors, as well as the device structure optimization has led to a rapid increase in the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of the organic solar cells (OSCs).
Therefore, the PCE of the polymer solar cells (PSCs) with the non-fullerene acceptor has boosted to over 16%8.
In comparison with polymer donors, small-molecule donors possess the advantages of well-defined molecular weight, easy purification and small batch-to-batch variations9–13.
Therefore, the design and synthesis of small-molecule donors that are matched well with the acceptor materials are vastly important for optimal morphology and efficient devices.
BDT units have been successfully incorporated into the small-molecule donors for both fullerene and non-fullerene solar cells17,18,30–35, among which the highest PCE of 11.50% and 13.63% has been attained for non-fullerene based binary and ternary blends, respectively30,36.
However, the DTBDT unit has seldom been introduced into the small-molecule donors in the literature27–29, since blending them with non-fullerene acceptors could only yield a low PCE of 4.38%, as reported by Kwon et al.28.
In this work, we report a DTBDT-based small-molecule donor named ZR1 with an A-π-D-π-A architecture.
The electron-rich DTBDT is utilized as the donor (D) unit to effectively extend the conjugated plane and improve the planarity of the molecule.
Likewise, a non-fullerene acceptor IDIC-4Cl with good crystallinity was synthesized and blended with ZR1.
The small-molecule donor ZR1 was synthesized through the Knoevenagel reaction with high yields of over 70% (Supplementary Fig. 1).
Due to long side chains on its 2D-conjugated thiophene units and rhodanine end acceptor, ZR1 exhibited excellent solubility in chloroform.
Hexyl substituted rhodanine was selected as the ending acceptor (A) group, as our previous result showed that such configuration leads to the highest performance37.
A recently reported narrow bandgap small-molecule Y6 with absorption edge more than 930 nm, and a home-designed acceptor IDIC-4Cl were selected as the electron acceptors38.
The non-fullerene acceptor IDIC-4Cl was also prepared through Knoevenagel condensation with a high yield.
The absorption edge of the ZR1 donor is located at ca.
Likewise, the absorption edge of Y6 and IDIC-4Cl acceptor films are located at ca.
Therefore, the ZR1 donor can effectively provide complementary absorption for both IDIC-4Cl and Y6 non-fullerene acceptors, which is beneficial to achieve high short circuit current density (JSC).
Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were employed to evaluate the electrochemical properties of the donor molecule and the acceptors(Supplementary Fig. 2)39.
Therefore, the ZR1 donor exhibited appropriate molecular energy level alignment with acceptors IDIC-4Cl and Y6, necessary for the efficient thermodynamic driving force for charge separation.
Conventional devices with a device architecture of ITO/poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene): poly(styrenesulfonate)(PEDOT:PSS)/active layer/Al were fabricated to evaluate the photovoltaic performance of the ZR1 donor with IDIC-4Cl and Y6 as the acceptors.
The donor/acceptor ratios of the blending films were carefully optimized to improve the device performance.
Similarly, the optimized devices with ZR1 as donor and Y6 as acceptor attained a highest PCE of 14.34% with a VOC of 0.861 V, a JSC of 24.34 mA cm−2 and a FF of 68.44%, while maintaining a D:A ratio of 1:0.5 and post-spin coating TA treatment at 120 °C for 10 min (Fig.1d).
Two donor small molecules with monothiophene and trithiophene as π bridges, namely ZR1-T and ZR1-3T, respectively, were also synthesized for the sake of comparison.
The small-molecule donor ZR1 shows an edge-on orientation demonstrated by the π–π peak located in the IP direction.
Similar to the most non-fullerene acceptors, pure Y6, IDIC-4Cl film exhibits face-on orientation indicated by the π–π peak located at qz = 1.75,1.84 Å−1 (d = 3.59 Å, 3.41 Å), respectively.Fig.
Upon thermal annealing, significantly stronger peaks with narrower widths, accompanied by the presence of new peaks, such as the secondary and third lamellar peaks from donor component, were clearly discernible.
Furthermore, the stronger and sharper lamellar (100) and (200) diffraction peaks of IDIC-4Cl appeared, indicating significantly enhanced crystallinity of the donor and acceptor as a consequence of thermal annealing.
Moreover, increasing the TA temperature beyond 120 °C led to the formation of numerous aggregates with a large aspect ratio, which can be assigned to the ZR1 donor which is consistent with the GIWAXS measurements.
These results suggest the formation of a hierarchical morphology within the blend i.e., a smaller donor phase, having a size very close to the exciton diffusion length of ca.
10 nm which accounts for the efficient charge separation, along with a larger donor phase that is responsible for the efficient charge transport within the system.
In contrast to the previous reports about the SM-OSCs’ hierarchical morphology18, the donor crystals, about 100 nm long and 30 nm wide, were also observed.
Herein, we report the synthesis of a DTBDT-based small-molecule donor, ZR1, and fabricated SM-OSCs by individually blending it with Y6 and IDIC-4Cl as acceptors.
Hence, this work provides opportunities to design highly efficient small-molecule donors for SM-OSCs by optimizing their hierarchical morphologies.
The small-molecule donor ZR1 and the acceptor IDIC-4Cl were synthesized via referencing the reported literature.
Up to now, the synthesis and optoelectric application of CdSe QDs have been extensively reported as electron acceptor [16–18].
The electron acceptor and donor activity of the imine was tested in the solar cell architecture: glass/ITO/PEDOT:PSS/active layer/In/Al.
Considering the polymer structure used as a donor component of active layer in the photovoltaic devices, three commercial polymers, poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), poly[N-9′′-heptadecanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4′,7′-di-2-thienyl-2′,1′,3′-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT) and poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]] (PTB7), have been widely investigated.
As the second component of the active layer, [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) or [6,6]-phenyl-C70-butyric acid methyl ester (PC70BM) are mainly used as an acceptor in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) devices.3,4,14,15
Our review showed that taking into consideration the components of active layers (donor and acceptor), the PCE values of organic solar cells based on imine as a donor were found in the range of 0.1–2.17%.29–33 In ref.
33, a symmetrical imine was used as the donor component in the device ITO/MoOx/TPA–TBT–TPA:PC70BM (1 : 5)/Mg/Al and the efficiency was found in the range of 1.97–2.17%, depending on the annealing time.
31, the imines with benzodifuran moieties and thiophene rings were tested as donor materials in bilayer solar cells, where C60 was used as an acceptor and the measured PCE was 1.18%.
Imines were also investigated as acceptors in the active layer of organic solar cells and a PCE in the range of 0.03–0.46% was obtained.
30, the authors recommended (5-(10-undecyloxy)-2-[[[4-hexylphenyl]imino]methyl]phenol) with liquid crystalline properties as an acceptor in the active layer with P3HT.
Moreover, a series of polyaromatic hydrocarbons with anthracene, phenanthrene and pyrene units connected with imine were investigated in polymer solar cells as the acceptor component in the devices with an architecture of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/P3HT (or P3OT):imine/Al and PCE in the range of 0.03–0.21% was obtained.36
In a reference cell, the active layer was in the form of a PTB7:PC70BM bulk heterojunction (BHJ), where PTB7 and PC70BM were used as donor and acceptor materials, respectively.
In (PTB7:PV-BLJ-SC9):PC70BM ternary mixtures, PV-BLJ-SC9 imine was used as an additive to the PTB7 donor, replacing 1/5 or 1/9 of it.
In binary BHJ mixtures of PTB7:PV-BLJ-SC9 or PV-BLJ-SC9:PC70BM, the PV-BLJ-SC9 imine was used as the donor or acceptor material, respectively, replacing the PTB7 donor or PC70BM acceptor materials in the reference active layer of PTB7:PC70BM.
It would also be interesting to co-polymerize PV-BLJ-SC9 with a fullerene functionalized with a thiophene group to obtain the so-called double cable polymer–fullerene composite, which may be used as a donor–acceptor photoactive material in polymer solar cells.
The absorption coefficient estimated for PV-BLJ-SC9 imine was 6 × 104 cm−1 at its maximum (for blue and higher energy photons), whereas the absorption coefficient of the PTB7 donor material reaches 2 × 105 cm−1 in the visible range.
This absorption band of PV-BLJ-SC9 imine is complementary to the PTB7 absorption regarding the solar spectrum, so it seems that the PV-BLJ-SC9:PTB7 mixture may be successfully used as a donor in organic solar cells instead of PTB7 alone, provided that the other properties like solubility or HOMO–LUMO energy positions of PV-BLJ-SC9 are appropriate.
Usually, a donor material is responsible for the absorption of solar radiation, but the PC70BM acceptor also shows significant absorption of sunlight, especially in the blue and UV range.
Ternary mixtures of (PTB7:PV-BLJ-SC9):PC70BM with a fraction of PTB7 donor material replaced by PV-BLJ-SC9 imine did not show any additional absorption signal derived from PV-BLJ-SC9.
In the absorption spectrum of PTB7:PV-BLJ-SC9, where the PC70BM acceptor material was replaced by PV-BLJ-SC9 imine, only a signal derived from PTB7 donor material was detected.
For the PV-BLJ-SC9:PC70BM spectrum, where the PTB7 donor material was replaced by PV-BLJ-SC9 imine, exactly the same absorption as that for pure PC70BM was observed.
For the solar cells with a part of PTB7 donor material replaced by PV-BLJ-SC9 imine, the reduction of efficiency by 15% to PCE = 4.0% was observed.
Current density is proportional to the concentration of photocarriers, so its decrease for (PTB7:PV-BLJ-SC9):PC70BM-based solar cells was due to the lower absorption of photons after partial replacement of the PTB7 donor material by PV-BLJ-SC9 imine, because of the low absorption coefficient of the imine in the visible range.
For all solar cells, the open circuit voltage remained constant due to the same active donor and acceptor, which was only slightly changed by the presence of PV-BLJ-SC9 imine.
The value of open circuit voltage depends mainly on the difference between acceptor LUMO and donor HOMO energy levels, and therefore its value is characteristic for a given cell composition.
The EQE for the latter cell started to increase at about 1.6 eV, and reached a small peak at 3.3 eV as for the cell with PTB7 donor.
Finally, the synthesized imine can be considered in the future as a compound for further modification of the active organic solar cell material by co-polymerization with thiophene-modified fullerene to obtain the so-called double cable polymer–fullerene composite, which may be used as a donor–acceptor photoactive material in polymer solar cells.
The application of polymer solar cells (PSCs) with n-type organic semiconductor as acceptor requires further improving powder conversion efficiency, increasing stability and decreasing cost of the related materials and devices.
Based on this synthetic route and methoxy substitution, two low cost acceptors with less synthetic steps, simple post-treatment and high yield were synthesized.
The high efficiency of 13.46% was obtained for the devices with MO-IDIC-2F (3,9-bis(2-methylene-5 or 6-fluoro-(3-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone)-4,4,9,9-tetrahexyl-5,10-dimethoxyl-4,9-dihydro-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b’] dithiophene) as acceptor.
Therefore, MO-IDIC-2F will be a promising low cost acceptor for commercial application of PSCs.Non-fullerene organic molecule acceptors have been the hot research subject to drive the efficiency of the organic solar cells higher, but their synthetic costs are high.
design a simplified synthetic route for the state-of-the-art acceptors and bring down their cost by more than 15%.
Especially, the narrow bandgap n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) small molecule acceptors17–25, have demonstrated excellent photovoltaic performance in combination with medium or wide bandgap p-type conjugated polymer as donors26–31.
PCE of the polymer solar cells (PSCs) with the n-OS as acceptor has boosted to over 13%32–34, which reached the threshold for application of the PSCs.
However, at present, most of the high performance donor and acceptor photovoltaic materials have complicated molecular structures23,35,36.
Actually, nowadays the fabrication of large area PSCs still relies mainly on poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as donor37, because P3HT is readily synthesized in large scale with controllable molecular weight and low cost.
Therefore, it is of crucial importance to simplify the synthetic processes and reduce the cost of the high performance donor and acceptor materials for the application of PSCs.
For example, recently, our group reported a low cost conjugated polymer donor PTQ10 with simple D-A structure, two-steps synthesis and high overall yield of 87.4%40.
Nowadays, the most representative and widely used high performance n-OS acceptors are ITIC41 and IDIC42.
IDIC with the alkyl side chains on IDT core possesses the advantage of the smaller fused-ring in its central unit in comparison with ITIC, which makes IDIC have the potential to be the low cost acceptor.
Thus, it is necessary to provide a better method for the synthesis of the alkyl side chain n-OS acceptors.
We further synthesized two low cost n-OS acceptors MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F based on the central unit of MO-IDT, and investigated their physicochemical and photovoltaic properties in detail.
The PSCs based on PTQ10 as donor and MO-IDIC-2F as acceptor demonstrated a high PCE of 13.46%.
The results indicate that MO-IDIC-2F is a promising low cost n-OS acceptor for future application of PSCs.Fig.
All of these hinder the selection of substrates, and the synthetic progress for the n-OS acceptors with alkyl side chains has been rather limited.
In order to decrease the cost of IDIC and optimize the synthetic routes of n-OS acceptors with alkyl side chains, we firstly tried to optimize the synthetic route of Compound 2 (Fig.
In the subsequent cyclization reaction, as we know, there are no reports on acid-catalyzed alkylated cyclization in preparing n-OS acceptors with alkyl side chains42,45,46,49.
In addition, the catalyst of amberlyst15 can be recycled and re-used for the low cost synthesis of the acceptors.
Based on the MO-IDT core, we synthesized two n-OS acceptors of MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F with the synthetic routes as shown in Fig. 2a.
Obviously, compared with the preparation of IDIC42, the synthesis of MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F possesses the advantages of less synthetic steps, simple post-treatment, and high yield, which can reduce the synthesis cost of the acceptor for the application in PSCs.
The chemical structures of the two n-OS acceptors were characterized by 1H and 13C NMR (Supplementary Figures 37–42)19, F NMR spectrum (Supplementary Fig.
And the two acceptors possess good thermal stability up to 340 and 337 °C, respectively, with 5% weight loss under nitrogen atmosphere, as measured by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA, Supplementary Fig.
It should be mentioned that the stability of the two acceptors in PSC devices should be similar with that of IDIC.Fig.
2Synthetic routes and physicochemical properties of the acceptors.
Synthetic routes and physicochemical properties of the acceptors.
In comparison with the absorption of the solutions, absorption spectra of the n-OS acceptor films exhibit a significant red-shift.
Thus, better device performance can be expected for the new acceptors.
In order to investigate the photovoltaic properties and potential application of MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F in the PSCs, we prepared the photovoltaic devices using the medium bandgap conjugated polymer PTQ10 as donor and MO-IDIC or MO-IDIC-2F as acceptor with the device structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PTQ10:acceptors/PDINO/Al.
The donor/acceptor (D/A) weight ratio in the active layer of the devices and the thermal annealing temperatures were optimized, and the optimized conditions are D/A weight ratio of 1:1 and thermal annealing at 120 °C (PTQ10/MO-IDIC-based PSC) or 110 °C (PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F-based PSC) for 5 min (see Supplementary Tables 4 and 5).
Figure 3a shows the current density–voltage (J–V) curves of the PSCs with the optimized donor:acceptor weight ratio of 1:1, and Table 1 lists the photovoltaic performance parameters of the PSCs for a clear comparison.
a J–V curves of the optimized PSCs based on PTQ10: acceptors (1:1) without (as-cast) and with thermal annealing at 120 oC (for the MO-IDIC-based devices) or 110 oC (for the MO-IDIC-2F-based devices) for 5 min, under the illumination of AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2; b IPCE spectra of the corresponding PSCs.
Plots of c Voc or PCE and d Jsc or FF vs. the active layer thickness ranging from 115 to 300 nm for the PSCs based on PTQ10: MO-IDIC-2F (1:1, w/w) with thermal annealing at 110 °C for 5 minTable 1Photovoltaic performance parameters of the PSCs based on PTQ10:acceptors (1:1, w/w) under the illumination of AM1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2a Without thermal annealingbAverage values and standard deviation data are calculated from more than 20 devicescData are the maximum values of the photovoltaic performance of the PSCsdWith thermal annealing at 120 °C for 5  mineWith thermal annealing at 110 °C for 5  min
a J–V curves of the optimized PSCs based on PTQ10: acceptors (1:1) without (as-cast) and with thermal annealing at 120 oC (for the MO-IDIC-based devices) or 110 oC (for the MO-IDIC-2F-based devices) for 5 min, under the illumination of AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2; b IPCE spectra of the corresponding PSCs.
Photovoltaic performance parameters of the PSCs based on PTQ10:acceptors (1:1, w/w) under the illumination of AM1.5 G, 100 mW cm−2
The high and broad photo-response over the wavelength range from 300 to 800 nm suggests that both PTQ10 donor and the acceptors made a considerable and complementary contribution to the Jsc.
4), the (100) peaks at 0.27 and 0.40 A−1 in the in-plane direction came from donor and acceptor, respectively.
The out-of-plane diffraction signal located at 1.80 A−1 was a simple combination of (010) reflection of both donor and acceptor.
Furthermore, crystal size of these two acceptors (MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F) in blend were 6.4 and 10.8 nm, respectively, and this also accounted for that the efficiency of device based on MO-IDIC-2F is higher than that based on MO-IDIC.
2D GIWAXS patterns of a as cast PTQ10/MO-IDIC blend films; b PTQ10/MO-IDIC blend films with thermal annealing at 120 oC for 5 min; c as cast PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films; d PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films with thermal annealing at 110 oC for 5 min; e line cuts of GIWAXS images of the as cast PTQ10/acceptors blend films; f line cuts of GIWAXS images of the annealed PTQ10/acceptors blend films; and g the RSoXS profiles of PTQ10/MO-IDIC and PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films as cast and thermal-annealed
2D GIWAXS patterns of a as cast PTQ10/MO-IDIC blend films; b PTQ10/MO-IDIC blend films with thermal annealing at 120 oC for 5 min; c as cast PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films; d PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films with thermal annealing at 110 oC for 5 min; e line cuts of GIWAXS images of the as cast PTQ10/acceptors blend films; f line cuts of GIWAXS images of the annealed PTQ10/acceptors blend films; and g the RSoXS profiles of PTQ10/MO-IDIC and PTQ10/MO-IDIC-2F blend films as cast and thermal-annealed
There was no obvious peak, which could be due to that the acceptor had less contrast with polymer donor, thus structure feature could not be clearly observed.
These two n-OS acceptors can be synthesized in high yields with relatively less synthetic steps in comparison with other acceptors.
In the calculation, 19 high performance donor and acceptor materials were considered with the production scale of 100 g. The materials include the n-OS acceptors of IDIC42, ITIC41, ITIM63, ITIC-4F23, NITI35, MO-IDIC-2F, and C8-ITIC34, as well as the polymer donors of PBDB-T35, PBDB-T-SF23, PFDBD-T34, PBTA-TF63, PBDTS-TDZ64, PDTB-EF-T(P2)65, PBDB-T-2Cl33, PBDB-T-2F66, and PTQ1040, each of these materials has demonstrated PCE higher than 12.5% in the PSCs.
It can be seen from Supplementary Table 11 that both MO-IDIC-2F acceptor and PTQ10 donor are relatively lower cost materials.
In this work, by optimizing synthetic procedures, MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F exhibit the lowest cost than other acceptors and MO-IDIC with the minimum synthesis steps of six steps present only 173.8¥ g−1, which is close to the cost of P3HT.
Cw is calculated using the following equation: Cw = (Cg total × ρ × t)/(η × I), where Cg total is the total material costs of active layer for a PSC device (Cg total = 0.5(Cg donor + Cg acceptor) in considering that most of the optimized D/A weight ratios in the active layer of the PSCs are 1:1); ρ is the density of the materials (here using 1.1 g cm−3); t is the thickness of the active layer with the unit of 100 nm; η is the PCE value of the PSCs, and I is the solar insolation under peak conditions (assumed to be 1000 W m−2).
For the P3HT-based PSCs with O-IDTBR as acceptor, the relatively low PCE (7%)67 results in higher Cw value (0.538¥ Wp−1).
Overall, the devices based on PTQ10: MO-IDIC-2F possess the higher PCE and the lowest Cw among the high performance PSCs, demonstrating great potential for the commercial application of PSCs.Table 2Survey of the donor and acceptor materials, as well as the maximum PCE and material costs Cg and CwMaterialsPCE (%)Cg (¥  g−1)Cw (¥  Wp−1)ReferenceDonorAcceptorPTQ10MO-IDIC-2F13.4254.90.190This workPTQ10MO-IDIC11.2216.50.193This workPTQ10IDIC12.7293.90.231 40 PBDTS-TDZITIC12.8340.40.266 64 PBTA-TFITIM13.1465.90.356 63 PBDB-T-SFITIC-4F13.1534.30.408 23 PBDB-TNITI12.7550.10.433 35 PFDBD-TC8-ITIC13.2789.90.598 34 PDTB-EF-T(P2)ITIC-4F14.2457.80.322 65 PBDB-T-2ClITIC-4F14.4450.20.313 33 PBDB-T-2FITIC-4F13.7606.60.443 66 P3HTO-IDTBR7.0376.70.538 67
Survey of the donor and acceptor materials, as well as the maximum PCE and material costs Cg and Cw
A new synthetic route was developed for simplifying the synthetic processes of high performance n-OS acceptors with alkyl side chains.
Moreover, by introducing alkoxy substituents on the benzene unit of the fused ring core, two new n-OS acceptors of MO-IDIC and MO-IDIC-2F were synthesized with further simplified synthetic processes and higher overall yield.
The two acceptors possess broad absorption and higher electron mobilities, MO-IDIC-2F shows red-shifted absorption and higher degree of self-organization than that of MO-IDIC.
Based on the cost analysis of the PSCs, the PSCs based on PTQ10:MO-IDIC-2F shows great advantages of low cost, high photovoltaic performance and thickness-insensitivity in comparison with the acceptors with PCE over 12.5%.
The results indicate that MO-IDIC-2F is a promising low cost acceptor for commercial application of PSCs.
Then the PEDOT:PSS-coated ITO glass was transferred to a nitrogen glove box, where the active blend layer of PTQ10 donor and acceptors was prepared by spin-coating their chloroform solution onto the PEDOT:PSS layer at a spin-coating rate of 3000 rpm.
Hole-only devices with the structures of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PTQ10: acceptor (1:1, w/w)/Au () was used to measure the hole mobility and electron-only devices with the structure of ITO/ZnO/PTQ10:acceptor (1:1, w/w)/PDINO/Al was used to measure the electron mobility.
In this model, the research samples include the acceptors of IDIC, O-IDTBR, ITIC, ITIM, ITIC-4F, NITI, MO-IDIC-2F, MO-IDIC, C8-ITIC and the polymers donors of PBDB-T, PBDB-T-SF, PFDBD-T, PBTA-TF, PBDTS-TDZ, PDTB-EF-T(P2), PBDB-T-2Cl, PBDB-T-2F, PTQ10, P3HT.
The morphology of solution-processed active layers of donors and acceptors depends on interactions at the internal and external interfaces.
To address the increasing demand of efficient photovoltaic compounds for modern hi-tech applications, efforts have been made herein to design and explore triazatruxene-based novel donor materials with greater efficiencies.
Five new molecules, namely M1–M5, were designed by structural modification of acceptor moiety (rhodanine-3-acetic acid) of well known experimentally synthesized JY05 dye (reference R), and their optoelectronic properties are evaluated to be used as donor molecules in organic solar cells.
In these molecules M1–M5, triazatruxene acts as a donor unit and benzene spaced different end-capped moieties including 2-(4-(dicyanomethylene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-3-yl)acetic acid (A1), (E)-2-(4-(1-cyano-2-methoxy-2-oxoethylidene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-3-yl)acetic acid (A2), (Z)-2-(3′-ethyl-4′-oxo-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazolylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A3), (Z)-2-(4′-(dicyano-methylene)-3′-ethyl-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazol-ylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A4) and 2-((4Z,4′E)-4′-(1-cyano-2-methoxy-2-oxoethylidene)-3′-ethyl-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazolylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A5) respectively, as acceptor units.
Frontier molecular orbital (FMO) surfaces confirm the transfer of charge from donor to acceptor units.
All designed molecules M1–M5 exhibited an absorption spectrum in the visible region and they were broader as compared to that of reference R. Especially, M5 with highest λmax value 649.26 nm and lowest transition energy value 1.90 eV was accredited to the strong electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor moiety A5.
The highest value of open circuit voltage (Voc) 1.02 eV with respect to HOMOdonor–LUMOBTP-4Cl was shown by M5 among all investigated molecules which was 0.15 V larger than reference molecule R. The designed molecule M5 is proven to be the best candidate for both electron and hole transport mobilities due to its smallest λe (0.0212 eV) and λh (0.0062 eV) values among all studied molecules.Five new molecules (M1–M5) were designed by structural modification of acceptor moiety (rhodanine-3-acetic acid) of well-known synthesized dye JY05, and their optoelectronic properties are evaluated to be used as donor molecules in organic solar cells.
On the other hand, various advantages of organic solar cells such as tunable energy levels, light weight, easy processability and low cost have made them efficient alternative devices.1–5 Metal-free organic sensitizers have been largely explored recently for their environmentally friendly characteristics, low cost, facile synthesis, high molar extinction coefficient and their structural diversity.6 Mostly, the structure of organic sensitizers adopts the donor–π-bridge–acceptor (D–π–A) configuration which facilitates the intramolecular transfer of electron charge density from D to A units after passing through a π-bridge.7–9
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are getting important considerations nowadays owing to their versatile optical and electronic properties and large number of applications in organic light emitting diodes (OLEDs),10 organic photovoltaics (OPVs)11 and organic field-effect transistors (OFETs).12 Among different PAHs, triazatruxene (5,10,15-triethyl-10,15-dihydro-5H-diindolo[3,2-a:30,2′-c]carbazole) abbreviated as TAT is a π-extended conjugated C3-symmetric planar structure with strong electron donating capability due to its electron-rich architecture.13–15 The TAT structure is a symmetric indole cycle-trimer with extended delocalized π-system in which three indole units form an overlapping framework combined by one benzene ring.16 Due to electron-rich structure and strong potential for intramolecular charge transfer (ICT), TAT presents immense probable applications in hole transporting materials with high hole mobility,16,17 fluorescent sensors,18 organic lasers,19 OFETs,12 liquid crystal displays (LCDs),20 OPVs,21 OLEDs,22 two-photon absorption (TPA)23 and nonlinear optics (NLO).24 The photo-electronic properties on the other hand are strongly influenced by electron acceptor units because injection of the electrons from dye molecule to semiconductor surface takes place through acceptor segments.25,26
Therefore, an electron-deficient acceptor segment is crucial to induce donor to acceptor charge transfer.27 In series of organic dyes, strong electron-withdrawing capable rhodanine-3-acetic acid has been used.
29) containing TAT as donor unit and benzene spaced strong electron-withdrawing capable rhodanine-3-acetic acid, and designed five new molecules M1–M5 by substituting rhodanine ring with different end-capped acceptor moieties.
The electronic, photophysical and photovoltaic properties of designed molecules M1–M5 were compared with reference dye JY05 (R) and highly effective donor materials with efficient acceptor moieties were recommended for their use in organic solar cells.
The focus of present probe was to theoretically design novel triazatruxene-based donor materials with promising acceptor units and predict their optoelectronic properties.
For systematic designing, triazatruxene-based experimentally synthesized D–π–A metal free organic dye JY05 (named as reference R in this study) was used.29 The reference R structure is composed of three blocks: triazatruxene as donor (D) unit, benzene ring as π-conjugated bridge and rhodanine-3-acetic acid (RAA) as acceptor (A) moiety.
The screening of pendant acceptor group is an important factor and plays a key role in D–π–A configurations for achieving fine photovoltaic properties.
Therefore, with a motivation to develop novel materials with excellent photovoltaic properties, structural tailoring of R was made by considering it prototype and keeping the donor, π-bridge part fixed and replacing the end-capped moiety (RAA) with different acceptor blocks.
Five new molecules namely; M1, M2, M3, M4 and M5 were designed by decorating the acceptor moiety (RAA) of R with 2-(4-(dicyano-methylene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-3-yl)acetic acid (A1), (E)-2-(4-(1-cyano-2-methoxy-2-oxoethylidene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-3-yl)acetic acid (A2), (Z)-2-(3′-ethyl-4′-oxo-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazolylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A3), (Z)-2-(4′-(dicyano-methylene)-3′-ethyl-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazolylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A4) and 2-((4Z,4′E)-4′-(1-cyano-2-methoxy-2-oxoethylidene)-3′-ethyl-2,2′-dithioxo-3′,4′-dihydro-2′H,5H-[4,5′-bithiazolylidene]-3(2H)-yl)acetic acid (A5) respectively.
The DFT and TD-DFT computations were performed on R and M1–M5 to describe how end-capped acceptor group modifications affects the optical, photophysical and photovoltaic properties of the organic sensitizers.
The highest value of HOMO and LUMO is noted in R. The HOMO and LUMO values of M1 are found to be lower than HOMO and LUMO values of R and M3 respectively, indicating the better withdrawing effect of dicyano groups present in end-capped acceptor A1.
On the other hand, HOMO, LUMO values in case of M1 is observed larger than M4, M5 corresponding values proving the better efficiency of M4 and M5 due to extra rhodanine ring equipped with dicyano group in end-capped acceptor A4 and combination of one cyano and ester group in end-capped acceptor A5 respectively.
In case of M2, the HOMO and LUMO levels are found more stabilized than R and M3 corresponding energy levels which indicate the less significant efficiency of acceptor moieties RAA in R and two rhodanine rings in M3 as compared to end-capped acceptor A2 of M2.
Similarly, HOMO and LUMO values of M2 are found larger than M4, M5 values indicating that end-capped acceptor moieties A4 and A5 in M4 and M5 respectively withdrawing the charge efficiently due to extended conjugation and presence of strong pulling cyano and ester groups.
The HOMO value of M3 is computed close to R molecule due to absence of extra cyano and ester groups in end-capped acceptor A3 unit, while LUMO energy level is found more stabilized than R which results in narrow Egap value than R. The case of M4 is similar to M5 which contain the most stabilized HOMO and LUMO energy level values than R, M1, M2 and M3's HOMO, LUMO values.
The highest Egap value (2.509 eV) among all investigated compounds (R and M1–M5) is found to be in R due to reduced electron withdrawing effect of RAA acceptor as compared to end-capped acceptors A1, A2, A3, A4 and A5.
In M1, reduction (of 0.674 eV) in energy gap value than R is noticed with Egap value of 1.835 eV due to strong pulling nature of dicyano groups present in end-capped acceptor A1 unit as compared to R. The Egap value of M1 is computed smaller than R, M2, M3 implying the better efficiency of A1 acceptor moiety than A2, A3 containing one cyano, one ester group and two rhodanine rings respectively.
The Egap value of M2 is observed narrower than R, M3 due to extended conjugation and presence of one cyano, one ester group in A2 acceptor.
However, M2 energy gap is found wider than M1, M4 and M5 due to less pulling nature and electron withdrawing characteristic of end-capped acceptor moiety A2 as compared to A1, A4 and A5 acceptors respectively.
Similar the HOMO, LUMO values of M3, Egap values are also found smaller than only R and larger than M1, M2, M4, M5 indicating the efficiency of end-capped acceptor A3 only better than R acceptor moiety RAA.
The lowest energy gap value is marked in M5 with 1.464 eV value (1.045 eV smaller than R) owing to strong electron withdrawing capability combined with extended conjugation present in end-capped acceptor A5 with respect to other acceptor moieties RAA, A1, A2, A3, A4.
Preceding discussion also evident that power of end-capped acceptor moieties are in inverse relation with the band gap value and increased in the following order RAA < A3 < A2 < A1 < A4 < A5.
5 that distribution pattern of electron density is altered around LUMO and HOMO due to strong pulling and electron withdrawing effect of end-capped acceptor moieties.
In R, the HOMO is populated mainly on donor part and LUMO on the other hand is concentrated equally on acceptor unit and on neighbouring bridge.
Similar effect is observed in designed molecule M1, where HOMO is located mainly on donor segment and LUMO density is seen uniformly on acceptor A1-bridge part.
In case of M2, M3 and M4, the HOMO charge density is spread on donor unit and minute charge is seen on bridge part, while LUMO is distributed primarily on benzene ring (bridge) and end-capped acceptor units A2, A3 and A4.
The case of M5 is bit different from all other molecules containing HOMO charge density only on donor unit, LUMO part is mainly populated over pendant acceptor A5 and partially on bridge part.
On the whole, these density distribution patterns indicate that delocalization of electrons is occurred and healthy amount of charge is transferred in all designed molecules M1, M2, M3, M4 and M5 from donor segment to acceptor unit with the assistance of bridge part.
We can clearly see from the results that λmax values are strongly affected by electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor moieties which caused the red shift in absorption spectra.41 Results also indicate that all investigated molecules (reference R and designed M1–M5) exhibit absorbance in the visible region.
The introduction of strong electron withdrawing dicyano acceptor group A1 in M1 molecule successfully increased (red shift) the absorption maximum value to 550.69 nm which confirmed the effectiveness of A1 acceptor as compared to RAA acceptor moiety in R molecule.
The λmax value of M2 (541.97 nm) is observed bit smaller than λmax value of M1 but found red shifted as compared to reference R which proved that end-capped acceptor A2 containing one cyano and one ester group efficiency is greater than RAA of R but less than A1 acceptor efficiency.
Replacement of RAA of R with two rhodanine rings (acceptor A3) in M3 further enhanced the λmax value to 577.01 nm.
The introduction of strong electron withdrawing dicyano group on second rhodanine ring in end-capped A4 acceptor further improved the maximum absorption wavelength to 619.66 nm in M4.
Among all studied compounds, the highest λmax value (649.26 nm) and red shift is found in M5 due to extended conjugation combined with strong pulling character of A5 acceptor motif.
The best efficiency of end-capped acceptor A5 in maximum red shifting the λmax value is in accordance with the large lowering of energy gap findings as discussed above.
The highest excitation energy is marked with 2.79 eV value in reference compound R. The introduction of strong electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor units lowers the excitation energy values in designed molecules M1–M5.
The lowest excitation energy value 1.90 eV is found in M5 due to combined effect of extended conjugation and strong electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor A5.
Therefore, all designed molecules particularly M5 may have the potential to use as a donor material in solar cell applications.
The anionic geometry indicates the electron transfer from the donor material, while the cationic geometry shows the hole in acceptor material.
The overall reorganization can be used to calculate the charger transfer between the donor and acceptor unit.
On the other hand, lacking of similarity between geometries require wait for vibrations to occur which orient the acceptor unit into an orientation analogous to donor part, hence, transfer of electrons may take place.
The smallest λe value among all investigated molecules is marked in designed molecule M5 which implies the best mobility of electrons among donor and acceptor units.
The difference between donor and acceptor molecules corresponding HOMO and LUMO energies is approximately proportional to Voc.
To achieve higher Voc, HOMO level of donor molecule should be low enough while acceptor molecular LUMO level should be with higher value.57
In present quantum chemical exploration, Voc results for R and M1–M5 are computed using two famous acceptor molecules.
Firstly, the HOMO energy levels of our investigated reference R and designed donor molecules M1–M3 are compared with LUMO energy level of renowned acceptor polymeric material PC61BM (see Fig.
Secondly, recently reported acceptor molecule (BTP-4Cl) with record breaking efficiency of over 16% and increased Voc values58 are used to compare the Voc results of our investigated compounds R and M1–M5 (see Fig.
The Voc of PC61BM is changeable and relies entirely on the donor materials that combine with it.
For example, Voc of PC61BM with well-known donor materials PBDB-T, PTB7-Th and P3HT are found to be 0.78 eV,59 0.75 eV,60 and 0.66 eV (ref.
The value of open circuit voltage (Voc) of reference R and designed molecules M1–M3 with respect to the acceptor moiety PC61BM.
The value of open circuit voltage (Voc) of reference R and designed molecules M1–M5 with respect to the acceptor moiety BTP-4Cl.
The Voc value of reference molecule R with respect to HOMOdonor–LUMOPC61BM energy gap is found to be 1.29 V. It is quite fascinating that designed molecules M1, M2 and M3 with respect to LUMOPC61BM energy gap reveal higher open circuit voltage values of 1.39 V, 1.41 V and 1.32 V respectively as compared to reference molecule R. The reason for higher Voc value of designed molecules than reference R molecule is due to the lower HOMO level of M1–M3 as compared to HOMO level of R. The HOMO level of donor molecules are observed in following decreasing order: R > M3 > M1 > M2.
The M4 molecule took the second place in terms of highest Voc value marked as 0.13 V larger than reference molecule R. The highest value of open circuit voltage 1.02 V among all investigated molecules is measured in designed molecule M5 which is 0.15 V larger than reference molecule R. Overall, open circuit voltage of investigated molecules (R and M1–M5) with respect to HOMOdonor–LUMOBTP-4Cl energy gap is noticed in accordance with the reverse HOMO energy level order as: M5 > M4 > M2 > M1 > M3 > R.
It can be seen that that Voc values of R, M1, M2 and M3 are found to be with similar order (M2 > M1 > M3 > R) and with similar difference (of 0.10 V, 0.12 V and 0.3 V) when compared with both PC61BM and BTP-4Cl acceptors results.
It is well evident from above discussion that designed donor molecules M1–M3 (except M4 and M5) are suitable candidates when combined with PC61BM polymer acceptor.
On the other hand, all designed molecules M1–M5 when compared with recently reported molecule BTP-4Cl containing record breaking efficiency exhibit appropriate open circuit voltage values greater than the reference molecule R, hence are suitable potential donor materials for enhancement of optoelectronic properties.
The compound M5 particularly exhibit lowest HOMO and highest open circuit voltage values and can be considered as potential donor candidate in solar cell.
Since, HOMO and LUMO energy gap is an important tool to enhance the power conversion efficiency of solar cell by transition of electrons from donor to acceptor segments.
Therefore, molecular orbital diagrams of R, M1–M3 and R, M1–M5 with respect to PC61BM polymeric acceptor and recently reported BTP-4Cl molecule are drawn in Fig.
Molecular orbital diagram of reference R and designed molecules M1–M3 donors with PC61BM acceptor.
Molecular orbital diagram of reference R and designed molecules M1–M5 donors with BTP-4Cl acceptor.
For charge transfer analysis, complex of M2 molecule is formed with renowned acceptor polymeric material PC61BM.
Similarly, complex formed between donor M5 and recently reported acceptor molecule (BTP-4Cl) with record breaking efficiency is also used to examine the transfer of charge.
The interaction between M2 donor and PC61BM acceptor takes place in such a pattern that overall orientation of acceptor PC61BM becomes parallel to M2 molecule in which functional group side of PC61BM orients toward donor part of M2, while ball side of PC61BM point out toward acceptor A2 side of M2 molecule (Fig.
(b) Charge transfer between donor M2 (HOMO) on left (L) side and polymer acceptor PC61BM (LUMO) on right (R) side at B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory.
The electronic structure of the M2:PC61BM complex is significantly affected by the relative orientation of M2 and PC61BM which facilitate the transfer of charge among donor and acceptor segments.
(b) Charge transfer between donor M5 (HOMO) on left (L) side and polymer acceptor BTP-4Cl (LUMO) on right (R) side at B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory.
The dipole moment of both complexes are calculated because the presence of dipole from M2 and M5 to the acceptor has been suggested as the reasons for efficient exciton dissociation at the M2/PC61BM and M5/BTP-4Cl interfaces.63–66 The dipole moment in both M2:PC61BM and M5:BTP-4Cl systems are due to the electrostatic interactions of permanent electric moment of M2 and M5 with that of PC61BM and BTP-4Cl respectively.
In both studied complexes M2:PC61BM and M5:BTP-4Cl, the origination of dipole moment vector takes place from polymer acceptor face and directs in the direction of pendant donor part of designed molecules M2 and M5 respectively.
11 that HOMO charge density in M2:PC61BM complex is populated on A2 acceptor part of the donor M2 molecule (Fig.
On the other hand, LUMO charge density is distributed on polymer acceptor PC61BM (Fig.
Similar and favourable charge transfer is observed in case of M5:BTP-4Cl complex in which HOMO is populated on the acceptor A5 part of the M5 donor molecule.
While, LUMO is concentrated on the central core of the polymer acceptor BTP-4Cl which indicate the successful transfer of charge from HOMO (donor) to LUMO (acceptor).
Overall, orbital analysis clearly depicts that HOMO to LUMO excitation is actually transfer of charge from donor designed molecules M2 and M5 to polymer acceptors PC61BM and BTP-4Cl respectively.
Such type of transitions involving shifting of charge density from donor to acceptor segments transitions reflects the superposition of orbitals between the molecules which is a concrete evidence of charge transfer between different moieties.
TDMs method is a key point which enables us to estimate the (i) electron hole localization; (ii) electronic excitation and (iii) excited state interaction among acceptor and donor units.67 To study these effects, we divided our reference R and designed molecules M1–M5 into three segments namely; donor (D), π-bridge (B) and acceptor (A).
The TDMs diagrams indicate that reference R and M3 molecules exhibit similar behaviour in which electron coherence is partially available on the diagonal of donor, more on the bridge segment and mostly present on the end-capped acceptor moieties.
The electron coherence in M1, M2 and M4 display similar trend and minutely available on donor part (non diagonal), more on the bridge segment and mainly present on the end-capped acceptors.
The TDMs diagram of M5 confirms that electron coherence is not seen on the donor part, bridge unit contain partial electron coherence and main electron coherence is present only on end-capped acceptor moiety.
The behaviour of electron coherence in reference R and designed molecules M1–M5 confirm that electron are successfully migrated from donor part to bridge unit which act as a facilitator for transfer of electron from donor to acceptor segments without trapping them and finally the electron charge density is reached to acceptor segments.
Furthermore, the decreasing order for coefficient of interaction connecting acceptor and donor segments is; R > M3 > M1 > M2 > M4 > M5.
In summary, we have rational designed five novel triazatruxene-based D–π–A metal-free organic donor materials (M1–M5) from experimentally synthesized dye (R) using screening of different acceptor moieties.
Quantum chemical calculations have been applied to explore the electronic structures, absorption spectra and photovoltaic properties of M1–M5 for use as donor molecules in organic solar cells.
Overall due to better electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor moieties, the optoelectronic properties of designed molecules (M1–M5) found better than R. All designed molecules (M1–M5) exhibit reduced energy gaps in the range of 1.464–2.008 eV as compared to reference molecule (2.509 eV).
Particularly, M5 displayed the lowest energy gap of 1.464 eV value (1.045 eV smaller than R) owing to strong electron withdrawing capability combined with extended conjugation present in end-capped acceptor moiety A5.
All designed molecules M1–M5 showed absorption spectrum in visible region and broader in the span of 550–649 nm as compared to reference R (443 nm), especially M5 with highest λmax value 649.26 nm and lowest transition energy value 1.90 eV was accredited to the strong electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor A5 with respect to other end-capped acceptor moieties RAA, A1, A2, A3, A4.
The open circuit voltage (Voc) with respect to HOMOdonor–LUMOPC61BM of M1–M3 was found in the range of 1.39–1.41 V higher than RVoc value 1.29 V. Similarly, Voc values of R and M1–M5 with respect to the LUMOBTP-4Cl of recently reported molecule BTP-4Cl containing record breaking efficiency are found in the span of 0.90–1.02 V. Among all investigated molecules, the highest Voc value with respect to LUMOBTP-4Cl acceptor was shown by M5 (1.02 V) which is 0.15 V greater than reference R molecule.
Conclusively, all designed donor molecules (M1–M5), especially M5 due to extended conjugation combined with electron withdrawing end-capped acceptor A5 hold promising optoelectronic properties and therefore are suitable donor materials for their use in organic solar cells.
The chemical structure of donors and acceptors limit the power conversion efficiencies achievable with active layers of binary donor-acceptor mixtures.
The donor and acceptor chemical structures afford control over electronic structure and charge-transfer state energy levels, enabling manipulation of hole-transfer rates, carrier transport, and non-radiative recombination losses.Efficiency of organic solar cells is determined by the physical properties of donors and acceptors in bulk heterojunction film.
Mixtures of the mid-bandgap donor PM6 and the low-bandgap acceptor Y6 have shown exceptional PCE (~16%), high JSC (~25 mA cm−2), and low energy loss (Eloss, 0.5–0.6 eV)15–19.
Here, we use quaternary blends, comprised of existing donor–acceptor pairs mixed with additional donor and acceptor components to mediate deficiencies in electronic performance or morphology, to address this challenge.
From the hole transport side, PM7, which has a chemical structure similar to PM6 but a deeper highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level, can be used as an “added” donor20,21, since it is miscible with PM6, does not disrupt the morphology, and provides a tiered cascading energy level alignment.
From the electron transport side, PC71BM, which is compatible with the base PM6:Y6 blends, is an acceptor with a slightly higher lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) than Y6 that affords a cascading energy level alignment to improve electron transport and promote efficiency.
In addition to reducing the charge splitting driving force, PM7 preferentially interacts with the Y6 acceptor, effectively regulating the crystallization of Y6 to better suit carrier transport.
PM7 redirects the ultrafast hole transfer from Y6 to the donor phase, forming tiered cascading energy levels that improve JSC without further absorption gain.
The higher LUMO level of PC71BM in the acceptor mixture improves the VOC and electron transport, and offsets the absorption loss, leading to an enhancement in device performance.
The Y6 acceptor absorbs from 700 to 950 nm, while PM6 and PM7 donors show complementary absorption from 400 to 700 nm.
The donor to acceptor ratio was fixed at 1:1.2 (optimized conditions for PM6:Y6) to avoid light-absorption-induced performance change, and PC71BM was added separately.
Therefore, enhanced electron transport aided in improving the light extraction from the acceptor materials.
These results indicate that the PM7 donor reduces trap-assisted recombination, due to a better HOMO level alignment, which will be discussed further in the following section.
We fit the donor kinetics with a bi-exponential function.
The former fast component τ1 can be assigned to the ultrafast exciton dissociation of Y6 at the donor–acceptor interface and the latter to the diffusion of excitons in Y6 toward interface before dissociation40–42.
Consequently, adding PC71BM to the ternary blends redefines the acceptor LUMO at a higher level, which further improves VOC.Fig.
Therefore, the BHJ blends can be viewed as simple OLED devices, with PM6/PM7 and PC71BM acting as hole and electron transporting layers, and emission happens at the Y6 acceptor or PM6:Y6 interfaces.
The PM6 donor assumed a dominant face-on orientation, with a broad (100) reflection in the in-plane (IP) direction at 0.28 Å−1 and a π–π stacking peak in the out-of-plane (OOP) direction at 1.69 Å−1.
The uniform distribution of PC71BM in the mixture indicates that the close interactions with the other amorphous components produces a unique electronic structure with improved electron transport channels, where excited electrons in the donors can transfer onto the “LUMO” of mixed domain that are rapidly extracted.
Though the HOMO of PC71BM is much deeper than that of Y6, a homogeneous mixing provides good contacts with the donor materials making exciton harvesting by PC71BM and Y6 efficient.
The double donor strategy yields a terraced HOMO energy level alignment that facilitates hole transport in the BHJ blends.
Adding PC71BM that is uniformly mixed with Y6 produces a terraced LUMO energy level alignment, and in the HOMO levels, the longer exciton diffusion times, in comparison to the splitting times, lead to a high probability that a suitable donor/acceptor interface can be found to split excitons.
Here, we designed multicomponents blends of polymer donors PM6 and PM7, a non-fullerene small-molecule acceptor Y6, and a fullerene acceptor PC71BM.
OPVs typically contain a heterojunction of electron donor and electron acceptor materials.
Upon excitation, an exciton is created in either material and diffuses to the donor-acceptor interface, where charge transfer can form an interfacial charge-transfer (CT) state (left of Fig.
When both charges are localized at the donor-acceptor interface, they have a small electron-hole separation reh and a large Coulomb attraction U(r).
We model the system using a tight-binding model of a d-dimensional cubic lattice containing Nd/2 donor sites next to Nd/2 acceptor sites, each representing a molecule or part of a molecule (Fig.
(A) A heterojunction is modeled as a lattice of sites with disordered energies (different shades), representing acceptor (orange) and donor (blue) molecules.
(B) Delocalization of the electronic states is found by diagonalizing the system’s Hamiltonian, with the eigenstates representing the simultaneous position of the electron (in the acceptor, blue) and the hole (in the donor, orange).
In the two-body problem, the Hilbert space consists of ordered pairs of sites, where ∣m, n⟩ represents an electron on donor site m and the hole on acceptor site n. The energy of this pair is Em,n=EmLUMO−EnHOMO+U(r), where EmLUMO is the LUMO energy of site m, EnHOMO is the HOMO energy of site n, and U(r) is the Coulomb potential of charges separated by a distance rU(r)=−e24πε0εrr(2)where e is the elementary charge, ε0 is the vacuum permittivity, and εr is the dielectric constant (here, taken to be εr = 3.5).
Generate Nd lattice of sites, with Nd/2 random donor HOMO energies and Nd/2 random acceptor LUMO energies.
In standard KMC, CT state recombination is often described with a constant rate Rrecomb, occurring when the electron and hole are on adjacent sites across the donor-acceptor interface.
Organic thin-film photovoltaic cells fabricated with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as the electron-donor and diarylmethanofullerene derivatives as the electron-acceptor material were examined.
Bulk heterojunction photovoltaic cells consisting of thin-film composites of conjugated polymers (donors) and fullerene derivatives (acceptors) are promising candidates for inexpensive, renewable solar energy conversion [1–6].
Significant efforts have been made to optimize the power-conversion efficiency (PCE) of solar cells based on poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as a donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as an acceptor [7–10].
Using a combination of these donor and acceptor molecules together with the optimized solvent processing, composition, and effect of device annealing, PCE has reached up to 5% [11–17].
In addition to PCBM widely studied as the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) acceptor, several methanofullerene derivatives have so far been studied for the development of efficient acceptors such as spiroannulated methanofullerenes [18], diarylmethanofullerenes [19–20], alkoxy-substituted PCBM derivatives [21], and bisPCBM [22].
These derivatives have been shown to have excellent properties as acceptors, but it is still important to study the structure-efficiency relationship of the fullerene structure in order to develop highly efficient OPVs.
These diarylmethanofullerenes have long alkyl chain(s) to increase the solubility and hopefully to cause the interaction with the donor P3HT polymer, being related to the morphology of the heterojunction thin film.
These first reduction potential data showed that the diarylmethanofullerene derivatives can be a better electron acceptor than PCBM [27].
A series of solar cells was fabricated with P3HT as the electron-donor and diarylmethanofullerene derivatives as the electron-acceptor material.
Derivative 1a having methoxycarbonylphenyl and bis(octyloxy)phenyl groups was shown to be a superior acceptor in combination with P3HT and PCE of the P3HT:1a blended cell was as high as that of PCBM.
This could be generally ascribed to the reduced LUMO level of the methanofullerene by the electron-donating bis(octyloxy)phenyl group, since the band gap between the HOMO level of the P3HT and the LUMO level of the acceptor is related to the Voc value, the higher band gap corresponding to the higher Voc value [20,27,29–31].
Dimethoxyphenyl- and (methoxycarbonyl)phenyl-substituted, and phenyl- and (methoxycarbonyl)phenyl-substituted methanofullerenes 1d and 1e did not work as acceptors, probably because of their low solubility in ODCB.
The bis(methoxycarbonyl)phenyl- and cyanophenyl-substituted methanofullerenes 1f and 1g showed good PCE, whereas nitrophenyl-substituted methanofullerenes 1h and 1i did not work as acceptors.
In conclusion, a variety of new and highly soluble diarylmethanofullerene derivatives 1a–k having electron-withdrawing and -donating groups were studied as acceptors of the BHJ device.
In particular, derivative 1a having (methoxycarbonyl)phenyl and bis(octyloxy)phenyl groups was shown to be a superior acceptor in combination with P3HT and the PCE of the P3HT:1a blended cell was as high as that of PCBM.
These observations will lead the way to further development of highly efficient acceptors for organic thin-film solar cells.
Again, just like in the inorganic case, bimolecular recombination at the donor/acceptor interface is characterized by an ideality of unity, and trap-assisted recombination yields an ideality larger than unity.
Since the discovery of photoluminescence quenching [1], photoinduced charge transfer [2], and photoconduction enhancement [3,4] in conducting polymers (CPs)-fullerene (C60) systems, donor-acceptor type organic solar cells based on π-conjugated polymers have been investigated as next-generation solar cells.
In the semi-layered structure, photoinduced charge transfer occurs efficiently because of the large interface area between donor and acceptor layers, and the generated electrons and holes can be transported efficiently to the electrodes.
All-polymer solar cells are herein presented utilizing the PBDTTT-CT donor and the P(NDI2OD-T2) acceptor with 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) and 1-chloronaphthalene (CN) binary solvent additives.
The thin-film solar cells that have been most extensively studied have a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) active layer in which an electron donor polymer is mixed with an acceptor with a low molecular weight123.
To date, the most successful electron acceptors used in these devices are based on fullerene derivatives, including [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) in particular.
Therefore, there is significant interest to develop alternative non-fullerene-based electron acceptors678.
To date, several classes of solution-processable non-fullerene acceptors have been considered.
For example, recent reports have studied photovoltaics devices based on a poly{[N,N′-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene-1,4,5,8-bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5′-(2,2′-bithiophene)} [P(NDI2OD-T2)] acceptor.
We applied PBDTTT-CT as the donor compound because it has been described as one of the most successful donor materials and it produces organic solar cells with an excellent performance1819.
1b), indicating that the energy level positions of the donor and the acceptor are suitable for an efficient charge transfer and separation at the interface between these two polymers22.
With an improved percolating phase, the electron-hole pair would be easily dissociated since a greater interface area between the donor and acceptor molecules can be obtained.
In addition, the reduction in the domain size and lower extent of the phase separation would allow excitons to more easily diffuse to the donor/acceptor interfaces and to subsequently generate free carriers.
Consequently, processing the blends with 3:1 DIO/CN co-additives decreases the solid state order of both the donor and the acceptor, perhaps in part explaining the increase in the intermixing of the two compounds and in the JSC of these blends35.
The photoluminescence (PL) of photoactive donors can be efficiently quenched when intimately blended with an acceptor due to the photoinduced charge transfer, and the geminate recombination of the initially generated charge transfer states back to the ground state may compete with the dissociation of these charges into free charge carriers38.
Furthermore, it is evident that in the PBDTTT-CT:P(NDI2OD-T2) blend films with the 3:1 DIO/CN additive treatment, most excitons generated in the PBDTTT-CT were able to diffuse to the donor:acceptor interface.
The shorter PL lifetime of a donor-acceptor combined cell implies that faster carrier dynamics in the BHJ cells are a result of the improvement in the efficiency of the cell.
The microstructure and the photophysics of this system were examined in depth, which revealed that the binary additive treatments reduced the aggregation of the polymer compound, improved donor/acceptor mixing, achieved an efficient charge transfer, and led to balanced charge transport.
Here we report four benzoxidazole based D–A–π–A metal-free organic dyes (WS-66, WS-67, WS-68 and WS-69) with different combinations of π-spacer units and anchoring-acceptor groups.
Either extending the π-spacer or enhancing the electron acceptor can efficiently modulate the molecular energy levels, leading to a red-shift in the absorption spectra.
The optimal dye, WS-69, containing a cyclopentadithiophene (CPDT) spacer and cyanoacetic acid acceptor, shows the narrowest energy band gap, which displays a very high photocurrent density of 19.39 mA cm–2, but suffers from a relatively low photovoltage of 696 mV, along with the so-called deleterious “trade-off” effect.
In addition, adsorption amount and photo-stability studies suggest that the cyano group in the anchoring acceptor is important for the stability since it is beneficial towards decreasing the LUMO levels and enhancing the binding of dyes onto TiO2 nanocrystals.
In this work, we first optimize the energy levels of benzoxidazole (BOD) based D–A–π–A organic sensitizers by combining different π-spacer units and anchoring-acceptor groups.
Moreover, the adsorption amount and photo-stability studies suggest that the cyano group in the anchoring acceptor is important for the stability since it is beneficial to decreasing the LUMO levels and enhancing the binding of dyes onto the TiO2 nanocrystals.
Molecular structures of dyes WS-66, WS-67, WS-68 and WS-69 with different combinations of π-spacer units and anchoring-acceptor groups.
Molecular engineering with different combinations of π-spacer units and anchoring-acceptor groups
D–A–π–A-based organic dyes have been widely developed due to their ability to facilitate electron migration in excited dye as well as their higher stability with respect to traditional D–π–A sensitizers.14 In this regard, compared to the commonly used benzothiadiazole (BTD) auxiliary acceptor,15 the stronger benzoxidiazole (BOD) unit remains relatively unexplored.
Hence, in this context, the BOD additional acceptor is chosen to bridge with the powerful donor of an indoline unit, in combination with a different anchoring group and π-bridge.
When the carboxylic acid group in WS-66 is replaced by the much stronger electron acceptor of cyanoacetic acid, as in WS-67, it displays a bathochromic shift of 18 nm in the ICT peak, with a maximum absorption band at 519 nm.
These results indicate that the introduction of a CPDT unit into the D–A–π–A framework combined with a cyanoacetic acid acceptor is beneficial to broadening the absorption and enhancing the light-harvesting capability.
And the minimum driving force requirement for excited electron injection into TiO2 and dye regeneration by the electrolyte is about 0.3 V.8a,20 Therefore, WS-66 theoretically possesses sufficient LUMO and HOMO values for electron-injection and dye-regeneration with a driving force of more than 0.5 V. Based on WS-66, replacing carboxylic acid with a stronger electron-withdrawing acceptor of cyanoacetic acid induces a downwards shift of the LUMO level by 0.09 V, while no variation in the HOMO level was observed, resulting in a reduced band gap (1.98 eV) for WS-67.
For dyes WS-66 and WS-67, the HOMO orbitals are mainly distributed on the indoline donor and BOD auxiliary acceptor, while the LUMO orbitals are largely delocalized on BOD, the benzene unit and the anchoring group.
All four sensitizers with either cyanoacetic acid or carboxylic acid acceptors display delocalized LUMO orbitals over the anchoring groups.
Apparently, the well-overlapping HOMO and LUMO orbitals can facilitate electron migration from the donor to the anchoring group and injection into the TiO2 conduction band.18 Besides, the twisted dihedral angle between the BOD and benzene ring can be significantly relieved by the introduction of a co-planar CPDT unit (Table S3†).
On the other hand, it can be found that WS-67 and WS-69 with cyanoacetic acid acceptors display enhanced stability compared with WS-66 and WS-68 with carboxylic acid acceptors,25 which can be attributed to two factors: (i) a more stabilized LUMO orbital resulting from the electron-withdrawing cyano group, and (ii) stronger binding strength of cyanoacetic acid with TiO2 nanocrystals as demonstrated in the adsorption amount experiment.
We have focused on the detrimental “trade-off” effect between photocurrent and photovoltage, and developed four novel benzoxidiazole based D–A–π–A metal-free organic dyes with different combinations of π-spacer units and anchoring-acceptor groups (WS-66, WS-67, WS-68 and WS-69).
Moreover, the adsorption amount and photo-stability studies suggest that the cyano group in the anchoring acceptor is important for the stability since it is beneficial towards decreasing the LUMO levels and enhancing the binding of dyes onto the TiO2 nanocrystals.
This approach is shown to provide a precise view of the active layer’s nanostructure and will be useful for studies of other materials as a function of various parameters, with particular attention to the role of the acceptor in tuning morphology for understanding optimum performance in organic photovoltaic devices.
The development of efficient organic-based photovoltaic devices (OPVs) comprising semiconducting materials in a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) requires high-yielding charge generation and excellent charge extraction toward the electrodes in the systems.1 To achieve those requirements, a high contact area between the p-type (electron donor) and the n-type (electron acceptor) semiconductors is necessary; the situation is optimum with nanoscale phase separation that also favors charge separation after short exciton diffusion.1−3 Nonetheless, the morphology of the binary mixtures is not easily controlled, and it is sensitive to a wide range of conditions; the nanoscale organization is affected by parameters such as the composition and chemical properties of the molecules, solvent evaporation rate, humidity, and substrate surface free energy.4−10 Remarkable advances in OPV performance have been achieved through the introduction of low-band-gap polymers and fullerene derivatives.11−18 One of the breakthrough (and most developed) active-material systems comprises a BHJ (Scheme 1) formed by poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT)19 and a fullerene derivative (PCBM)14 showing a power conversion efficiency (PCE) in the range 3.5–5.0%.1,3,20,21 The nanoscale domains and resulting large contact area between donor and acceptor materials lead to effective charge photogeneration and exciton dissociation.
Such fiberlike features have been reported previously by tuning other preparation parameters (temperature, annealing time, the drying time of the solvent, and spin-coating) as well as the ratio between the blended donor and acceptor materials.28,38,39,43 The chemical and physical properties of the polymer tune its ability to crystallize; therefore, these properties also impact the morphology of the bulk.44,45 As the blend ratio is varied, the films display slightly different morphologies with features better resolved in the phase images.
A similar analysis of the surface of the blends of P3HT:PCBM at 1:0.8 and 1:1.5 ratios (Figure 4), left in either dark or ambient laboratory light conditions, was then recorded in an effort to understand the influence of the fullerene acceptor on the P3HT surface arrangement.
This observation indicates that the acceptor is loaded into the polymer at some level, a feature seen by others using other techniques.51,52
The variation of a few electronvolts in the positions of both the C 1s (shift of 0.9 eV related to the alkyl chain and 0.7 eV to the methoxy C) and O 1s (0.4 eV related to the carbonyl group and 0.3 eV to the methoxy) peaks, compared to their positions in the film made only of the PCBM fullerene derivative (C 1s, 285.6 eV alkyl chain, 287.1 eV methoxy C; O 1s, 532.4 eV carbonyl group, 533.7 eV methoxy group; see Figure S14 and Table S1 of the SI), confirms the presence of the electron donor P3HT at the film–air interface, interacting with the fullerene derivative.
This effect is possibly a result of an influence of the acceptor—that is clearly present at the atmosphere–blend interface—on the domains of the polymer compared to the film of pristine P3HT.
The development of non-fullerene acceptor molecules have remarkably boosted power conversion efficiency (PCE) of polymer solar cells (PSCs) due to the improved spectral coverage and reduced energy loss.
An introduction of fullerene molecules into the non-fullerene acceptor-based blend may further improve the photovoltaic performance of the resultant ternary PSCs.
It is found that the PC71BM tends to intermix with the PBDB-T donor compared to the ITIC counterpart.
Non-fullerene acceptors have drawn great research interests in the community of polymer solar cells (PSCs) in recent years.
The power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of PSCs employing non-fullerene acceptors have increased rapidly as compared to the PSCs using fullerene derivatives as acceptors (Lin et al., 2015; Cao et al., 2017; Fan et al., 2017; Li et al., 2017; Xiao et al., 2017; Dai et al., 2018).
Non-fullerene acceptors possess some advantages such as strong absorption in the visible region and tunable energy levels with regard to fullerene derivatives, and thus allows for suitable combination of donor/acceptor blend to improve the spectral coverage and reduce the energy loss (Holliday et al., 2016; Li et al., 2016, 2018; Qiu et al., 2017).
In addition to the strong and complementary absorption and the matched energy levels of the donor/acceptor combination, the donor/acceptor morphology with a suitable phase separation is equally important for realizing a high PCE.
More recently, addition of another type of donor or acceptor in the binary non-fullerene PSCs to fabricate so-called ternary PSCs have drawn great interests.
It is proposed that the ternary morphology can be divided into four types according to the relative position of third component to the donor phases and acceptor phases, namely the third component embedded in one phase, located at the interfaces, formed alloy structure with either the donor or acceptor material and parallel-like bulk heterojunction structure with the donor or acceptor (Lu et al., 2015).
Typical electron acceptor fullerene derivatives, such as PC71BM and Bis-PC71BM have been used as additives in non-fullerene PSCs.
have reported high-performance ternary PSCs employing non-fullerene and fullerene acceptors simultaneously for the first time, in which they found that a small amount of fullerene is in favor of boosting the photovoltaic performance of the devices (Lu et al., 2016).
Herein, a reported wide bandgap polymer poly[(2,6- (4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′] dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl) benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))] (PBDB-T) is used as the donor, organic molecule (3,9-bis(2-methylene-(3- (1,1-dicyanomethylene)-indanone))- 5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-dithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′] dithiophene) (ITIC) is used as the acceptor and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) is used as the third component to prepare the ternary PSCs.
It is found that the PC71BM tends to intermix with the PBDB-T donor compared to the ITIC counterpart.
Both the polymer PBDB-T donor and small molecule ITIC acceptor were bought from Solarmer Ltd.
The total ratio of donor component to acceptor component is kept at a fixed ratio of 1:1 (w/w).
The detailed photovoltaic parameters of the resultant PSCs with different ratio of two acceptors are listed in Table S1 in Supplementary Information.
As shown in Figure 3B, the introduction of PC71BM favors to quench the excitons dominated on the PBDB-T donor.
The electron mobility of the PBDB-T:ITIC (1:x) and PBDB-T:PC71BM (1:x) blend films are measured and its dependence on the acceptor ratio is plotted in Figure 6.
It is supposed that the acceptor phase forms continuous tunnels when the electron mobility of the blend films exceeds 10−5 cm2V−1s−1.
It is found that the PC71BM tends to intermix with the PBDB-T donor compared to the ITIC counterpart.
They clearly suggested that this polymer possess a high electron affinity together with a very interesting absorption band, making it a good non-fullerene acceptor candidate.
This is partly due to the intrinsic efficiency and versatility of the fullerene derivatives used as electron acceptor materials in many devices [5].
Finally, we report the preliminary evaluation of their electronic properties, through studies of their application as organic field effect transistors and as non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) in organic solar cells.
The P(TzDPP-Th) exhibits a rather high electron affinity that makes it a possible candidate to be used as an electron-transporting material and potentially as a non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) in organic solar cells.
Fullerenes are usually chosen as the electron acceptor material because of their well-known processing conditions and favorable band alignment with the donor polymer, allowing for efficient charge transfer (CT).5 Polymeric and small organic molecular semiconductors can be used in combination to form either a planar heterojunction device or a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) device.
The interface between the donor and acceptor materials in an organic photovoltaic (OPV) device creates an energy offset that allows the photoexcited species, bound electron–hole pairs (excitons), to overcome the large binding energy (Eb).6 A bulk heterojunction film is formed when the acceptor and donor materials are dissolved in a single solution, which is cast to create a thin film that contains a blend of both materials.
The profile of the interface between the acceptor and donor materials creates a large interfacial surface area, allowing excitons to be within the diffusion length of the interface.7 Because the heterojunction creates segregated domains whose dimensions are shorter than the exciton diffusion length, BHJ-based photovoltaic devices have a high internal quantum efficiency (EQE), as most excitons are dissociated and collected at the electrodes.8 Therefore, the morphology of the heterojunction plays a key role in ensuring that the device is performing at its maximum potential.9
This initial period has been termed the “burn-in period”, during which devices show a decrease in current–voltage (J–V) parameters such as the short-circuit current density (Jsc), open-circuit voltage (Voc), fill factor, and power conversion efficiency.15 The photoactivated changes that occur in encapsulated OPV devices affect the micromorphology of the BHJ and initiate unwanted chemical reactions of either the donor or acceptor, mainly affecting the short-circuit current density (Jsc) and the open-circuit voltage (Voc).16−19 It is well known that fullerenes form oligomers when exposed to light, causing the PCE to drop because such fullerene oligomers exhibit shorter exciton diffusion lengths and lower charge-carrier mobilities compared to the initially isolated fullerenes.20−22 However, oligomerization can potentially be avoided by ensuring that the BHJ comprises crystalline fullerene domains forming a blend with the donor polymer.16
OPVs are excitonic at room temperature owing to the enhanced coulombic interaction between the electrons and holes, resulting in an exciton binding energy (Eb) that is on the order of ∼100 meV.23 At the interface between the acceptor and donor materials, the acceptor material, usually fullerene-based, has a higher electron affinity than the donor material, which creates an energy offset that allows electrons to overcome the exciton binding energy.24 However, a proportion of dissociated charge carriers may continue to interact with each other across the interface such that the frontier orbitals of the allowed electronic states between the highest occupied molecular orbital of the donor (HOMOdonor) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital of the acceptor (LUMOacceptor) overlap.25,26 Such interfacial charge-transfer (CT) states are bound states formed between a hole residing on the donor polymer and an electron on the acceptor.
Random diffusion of a CT excitation in the vicinity of the interface, assisted by the internal field, will eventually lead to either charge separation or recombination.25,27 The energy of the CT state, ECT, can be deduced using absorption- and emission-based spectroscopic techniques.28 However, the intensity of the photocurrent signal from the CT state is usually orders of magnitude lower than that associated with excitons residing on only the donor polymer.29 An accurate assessment of such CT states is essential because the choice of the donor and acceptor molecules and the morphology of the BHJ can significantly influence the spatial delocalization of the CT state, which will alter the dissociation efficiency of electrons and holes into free carriers.27,30,31
The donor material, PBTZT-stat-BDTT-8,38 is based on a conjugated polymer whose backbone consists of substituted thiophenes with side chains enhancing the solubility of the polymer.39 The acceptor molecule is phenyl-C61-butyric-acid-methyl-ester (PCBM), a functionalized fullerene that is commonly used in BHJ films because of its solubility in a wide range of solvents, suitable energetic alignment with the donor polymer, and a delocalized LUMO allowing for favorable electron mobilities.40 The material combination used in the photoactive layer has previously been shown to be versatile in different solvent systems and device architectures and to yield OPV devices with a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 9.3%.38 Electron and hole extraction layers were based on polymers PV-E002 and PEDOT:PSS.38 The current–voltage characteristics for the complete set of devices investigated in this study are provided in Figures S1 and S6 (Supporting Information).
The bulk heterojunction consists of the donor polymers PBTZT-stat-BDTT-8 and PCBM, and the electron and hole transport layers of polymer PV-E00238 and PEDOT:PSS, respectively, as described previously.38 (b) Mean short-circuit current densities (Jsc) deduced from the initial EQE spectra and the final spectra after 1070 min of exposure to AM1.5 light with or without filters (averaged over three or more devices).
The fast initial loss in EQE correlates well with trends observed previously, which have shown that there is a fast decrease in Jsc during the burn-in period of OPV devices consisting of fullerene-based acceptor molecules.15
To examine whether this reduction in EQE is caused by the oligomerization of PCBM, we carefully explore any additional changes that may occur below the band gap Eg, where CT state photocurrent features may contribute.52−54 Because the CT state arises from an overlap between the frontier molecular orbitals of the acceptor and the donor, even a minute change in the morphology of the heterojunction, caused, e.g., by the oligomerization of PCBM, will affect the number of free charges generated from the CT state.
To confirm whether the observed sub-band-gap photocurrent is indeed generated by dissociated charges from the CT state, we record electroluminescence (EL) spectra for a device and correlate the recorded features with those observed in the EQE spectra.55 During EL, electrons are injected from the electrodes into the LUMOacceptor and holes into the HOMOdonor levels, leading to a gradual population of the available density of states, starting with the lowest-energy states.56 When the device is under forward bias, charges will diffuse toward the heterojunction where they may be captured into CT states through which they may radiatively recombine.
Oligomerization of PCBM will also lead to a change in the micromorphology of the BHJ, which may either reduce or enhance the interaction between the frontier molecular orbitals of the donor and acceptor materials, thus affecting the density of CT states.31,58,59 In the case of the heterojunction investigated in this study, we observe such effects via the reduction in the sub-band-gap photocurrent after the device has been aged with UVB + UVA-filtered AM1.5 light (Figure S3).
Exposure of an OPV device to UV light results in the breaking of C–H bonds and the formation of C dangling bonds,63,67 which has been found to create new trap states at the donor/acceptor interface.15,63−65 Therefore, the reduction in the CT state photocurrent caused by oligomerization of PCBM is most likely masked by the simultaneous formation of sub-band-gap electronically allowed states following exposure to additional UV light.
Full replacement of fullerenes as the electron acceptor may be a viable strategy to address the latter issue, given that significant advances have recently been made in the design of new nonfullerene acceptor materials.16,40,68,69 We note that our study also demonstrates the need for photostability assessments of solar cells based on new photoactive materials both under unfiltered and UV-filtered AM1.5 light, to thoroughly analyze suitability of any material system for long-term use.
Overall, our analysis suggests that the placement of a UV filter in front of the OPV device and replacement of fullerenes with more photostable electron acceptor molecules may allow OPV devices to progress toward the long-term stability required for commercialization.
They consist of a conjugated polymer as an electron donor and a nanocrystalline metal oxide as the electron acceptor [17,18,19].
In hybrid metal oxide polymer solar cells, the electron transfer from π-conjugated polymers (donor) into the nanoporous metal oxide (acceptor) produces a large proportion of charge carrier pairs across the donor/acceptor interface.
Further, selecting favorable acceptor materials with some important physical properties, such as solubility in a common solvent with the donor material, availability and cost of the material, capability to reach a balance between electron and hole mobilities, and the success of the nano-morphology of the donor/acceptor phases [34], also play a central role in the performance of the hybrid solar cells.
Photosensitizer/interface modifiers which are used in the donor-acceptor interface have been shown to improve the open-circuit voltage (VOC) and fill factor (FF) by suppressing surface recombination [36].
The polymer donor should have a small bandgap, enhanced packing structure, and high hole mobility in order to obtain an enhanced PCE of the device.
The proximity of the LUMO energy of the polymer donor and the CB energy of metal oxide acceptor encourages electron transfer.
Among other polymer donors reported in the literature, the homopolymer Poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) has been gaining much attraction due to its regular end-to-end packing arrangement of the side chain, which allows efficient π-π stacking of the conjugated backbones [54,55,56].
The step numbers represent as (1) light absorption (ηa) and exciton creation (ηex) (a photon with an energy hν≥Eg of polymer donor will absorbed), (2) diffusion of the exciton to the interface between the metal oxide and polymer (ηdiff), (3) electron-hole pair dissociation into free charge carriers (ηed), (4) charge transport (ηtr), (5) recombination of charge, and (6) charge collection (ηcc).
As illustrated, the donor material creates the exciton by absorbing the photon energy from the sunlight and allows the electron to be excited to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbit (LUMO) by leaving a hole from the highest occupied molecular orbit (HOMO).
Next, the excited electron is dissociated from the LUMO level and transported to the conduction band (CB) of the acceptor material.
They provide a valuable understanding of the charge-transfer processes at the donor–acceptor interface.
The photovoltaic performance summarized in Table 1 evidenced that the interface modification in nanostructured solar cells with SAMs improves the overall performance of the solar cells [69,70,71] due to the increased tunneling probability which is attributed to reduced effective barrier, and also due to the induced dipole at the donor–acceptor interface which realigns the energy level [72].
The electron donor, methoxy group of MBA leads a dipole moment pointing away from the TiO2 surface, thus reducing the work function of TiO2 [14].
Further, the porosity of spin-coated TiO2 prompted an efficient exciton harvesting from the donors/dyes.
Interlayers can act as a physical spacer between the electron on the inorganic acceptor and the hole on the organic donor.
Further, they maximize the electron affinity offset between acceptor and donor in order to promote the exciton dissociation.
The spin dynamics at organic donor–acceptor junctions is critical in determining charge generation and recombination in devices, but the detail is still unclear.
In organic solar cells (OSC), the direct intersystem crossing from photogenerated singlet excitons is typically suppressed by efficient and ultrafast singlet exciton dissociation at the donor/acceptor (D/A) heterojunction.
Charge recombination can, however, lead to the formation of triplet excitons34567891011121314151617, most likely via back-electron transfer from electron-hole pairs with a triplet multiplicity, in which the electron resides on the acceptor and the hole on the donor3418.
Analogous nanosecond radical pair singlet-triplet mixing processes are well-documented for the cases of donor–acceptor molecules in solution26272829303132, polymer-polymer blends89, phthalocyanine-fullerene blends1617 and photosynthetic reaction centres3334.
Three novel A–D–A type small-molecule donor materials, namely AAN-DPP2, AAN(T-DPP)2 and AANT(T-DPP)2, with anthanthrene (AAN) as the electron-donating core, diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as the electron-accepting moiety, and thiophene as π-bridge units, have been designed and synthesized for application in bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs).
The results indicate that strategic substitution of π-bridges and side-chains in A–D–A type SMs is an efficient strategy to improve photovoltaic performance.Three novel A–D–A type small-molecule donor materials, with anthanthrene (AAN) as the electron-donating core, and thiophene as π-bridge units, have been designed and synthesized for application in bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs).
Solution-processed organic solar cells (OSCs) are drawing more and more attention recently for their promising applications in next generation clean and renewable energy sources with the advantages of low cost, light weight, and high mechanical flexibility.1–4 With the rapid progress over recent years, the best power conversion efficiency (PCE) of polymer donors in the single-junction and tandem solar cells has reached 18.22% and 17.3%, respectively.5–8 Fortunately, the small molecular ternary and tandem OSCs have also achieved 13.6% and 12.7% PCEs, respectively,9,10 and for the single-junction device field, a PCE of 11.5% has been achieved for solution-processed small molecule solar cells (SMSCs).11 Furthermore, compared to polymers, small-molecules possess unique features of easy purification and well-defined discrete structure, which can ensure greater reproducibility in the device performance.12 As being comparable with polymer materials, SM-OSCs have been considered being promising candidates for high efficient OPVs.
As we all known, a large amount of SMSCs with an A–D–A framework were synthesized and systematically investigated containing different donor cores such as dithienosilole (DTS), benzodithiophene (BDT), porphyrin.13 Those molecules exhibit high mobilities and wide absorptions with high coefficients owing to the efficient conjugation in the backbone structure and intra-molecule charge transfer (ICT) between the terminal acceptor units and the central donor building blocks.12 However, those classical donor cores are always hard to synthesize, in order to lower the cost, some cheap industrialized dyes may be taken into consideration.
The star industrialized dye that has been applied in organic semiconductors is diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP).14–16 Furthermore, DPP is also a success example for using as the electron acceptor unit in the organic solar cells (OSCs).17 DPP dyes possess several advantages as follows: firstly, most of the DPP dyes show strong absorption with high molar extinction coefficients (εmax) values; secondly, the highly ordered molecular stacking in the solid state endow DPP dyes with high hole and electron mobilities; thirdly, benefiting from the bicyclic lactam rings, DPP dyes show strong electron-withdrawing ability, which is suitable for using as an electron-deficient building block in donor–acceptor (D–A) synthetic strategy; finally, DPP-based conjugated molecules often exhibit a broad optical absorption and good film-forming characteristics as well as film morphology, resulting in high short-circuit current (Jsc) and good fill factor (FF) in solar cells.18–20
In this work, we try to use ANT as the start material to build new donor core for OSCs.
A series of A–D–A type small molecules was designed and synthesized, namely AAN-DPP2, AAN(T-DPP)2 and AANT(T-DPP)2, respectively (as shown in Chart 1), thiophene-flanked diketopyrrolopyrrole (TDPP) units used as the acceptor units, thiophene used as conjugated π-bridge, had been synthesized and characterized.
Accordingly, inserting extra thiophene unit into the space of the donor core and acceptor units have some advantages as below: firstly, increases effective conjugation of the molecular backbone, which translated into broader and stronger absorption result in higher short-circuit current density (Jsc); secondly, improve molecular planarity and enhance π-electron delocalization and solid-state intermolecular packing, which translated into higher hole mobility.26–30 Though employing the electron-pushing thiophene π-bridge to the SMs may result in a little elevation to the HOMO energy level of donors often results in the decreasing of Voc values,31 while sometime can get a relatively higher Jsc value by sacrifice a little Voc, and obtain a relatively higher PCE value at last.
And in order to improve the solubility of the donor core, side-chains of 2-ethylheoxy and 2-octylthiophene were introduced into the AAN unit.
By introducing thiophene units as π-bridge and side modified groups into the backbone of the SMs, their corresponding thermal, absorptive, electro-chemical and photovoltaic properties were rationally adjusted for applications as donor materials in OSCs.
Therefore, strategically substitution of π-bridge and side modified groups into the backbone of the SMs could be a promising strategy for adjusting the photovoltaic performance of AAN-based huge fused ring core molecular donor materials.
The changing of thiophene substituent group on the donor core unit has a subtle influence on their electrochemical properties.
In order to gain a deeper understanding of the impact of selecting different acceptors on the geometrical conformations and energy levels of the SMs, the HOMO and LUMO distributions of these SMs were calculated by the density functional theory (DFT) (B3LYP; 6-31G*) method.
As expection, compared to the similar non-thiophene modified donor core based AAN-DPP2, AAN(T-DPP)2 and AANT(T-DPP)2 shows an increased Jsc, which is match well with the results of UV-vis absorption test.
And a best PCE of 2.33% was obtained on AAN(T-DPP)2-based OSCs, the results indicate that introducing thiophene π-bridges and suitable side modified groups onto the anthanthrene (AAN) donor core is a promising strategy to decrease the torsion angle of the whole molecule, and to increase the FF value of small molecules which with a bulky fused planar core, and for further enhancing the photovoltaic performance of SMSCs.
A variety of organic dyes have been studied as sensitizers, the general structure of which involve a donor−π-spacer–acceptor push–pull system, which favors electron injection through an efficient charge transfer and separation on photoexcitation, and allows possibilities of a wide range of structural modifications to the donor, π-bridge, acceptor group, and anchoring moiety.
The tuning of the donor moiety can improve interfacial phenomena, spectral properties, and electronic energy levels, whereas the conjugation between the donor and the π-bridge can be used to determine the efficiency of charge separation.9−22,34,40,41
Common electron-donor groups, including diphenylamine,26,27 carbazole,42 indoline,10,26 and triphenylamine43 in particular, are extensively used in organic photovoltaics as an excellent electron source, offering extensive possibilities for modifying the structure, function, light harvesting, energy levels, charge generation, and separation.
The acceptor groups strongly influence the photovoltaic properties of the DSSC as they are key to electron injection from the dye molecule to the conduction band (CB) of the semiconductor film; they are also responsible for anchoring the sensitizing dye to the surface of the semiconductor.
We report the synthesis and evaluation of the optical and electrochemical properties of two heterocyclic organic dyes, which contain thieno[3,2-b]thiophene as the π-bridge, a triphenylamine moiety as the electron donor group, and cyanoacetic acid, 3a, or rhodanine-3-acetic acid, 3b, as acceptor/anchoring moieties.
The dyes are based on a thieno[3,2-b]thiophene π-spacer, which exhibits good charge-transfer properties, excellent π-conjugation, and low geometric relaxation energy upon oxidation.50,51 Triphenylamine was chosen as the donor group because of its excellent electron-donating ability, hole-transport properties, and capacity to suppress the aggregation of the dye through its nonplanar structure.25,31,36,44−49 Combined theoretical and experimental studies (optical, redox, and photovoltaic) were carried out to determine the most efficient heterocyclic dye as sensitizer for DSSCs.
The LUMO levels of these dyes are −2.69 and −2.88 eV, which are higher than the CB of TiO2 (−4.0 eV), indicating that electron injection from the excited molecule to the CB of TiO2 is energetically favorable.61 Electron injection to very high densities of TiO2 acceptor states can involve a very high interfacial electronic coupling process, quite insensitive to high values of −ΔG.62 In agreement with this, injection from the unrelaxed dye excited states has been observed as one of the main electron injection paths.63 Generally, a minimum driving force of 0.2 V is sufficient to ensure fast excited-state injection and regeneration of the oxidized dye.64 Therefore, dyes 3a–b have sufficient driving force for electron transfer from the excited molecules to the CB of TiO2 and can be used as sensitizers for possible electron injection in DSSCs.
From Table 2 and Figure S1, it is clear that the photovoltaic performances of the DSSCs are affected by the nature of the acceptor groups on the thienothiophene dyes.
The very low photovoltaic performance exhibited with dye 3b bearing rhodanine-3-acetic acid as an acceptor/anchoring group (η = 0.35%) could be due to the abated short-circuit current density (0.97 mA cm–2).
The significant improvement is due to the replacement of rhodanine-3-acetic acid by cyanoacetic acid as the acceptor/anchoring group, which leads to more effective electron injection into TiO2, partly because cyanoacetic acid presents better coplanarity with the spacer unit and a lower energy HOMO that facilitates dye regeneration by the electrolyte.
The large Stokes shifts found for them (5718–6305 cm–1, see Table S1) strongly suggest the involvement of an intramolecular charge-transfer process between the donor and acceptor groups.
Although it is well-established that electron injection from a molecular electron donor to the CB of TiO2 can be an extremely fast process (<100 fs), the presence of fast competing processes with electron injection directly affects the incident photon-to-current efficiency of photovoltaic cells and concomitantly lowers the conversion efficiencies.71,72 Inherently fast deactivation channels need to be avoided to obtain highly efficient electron injection in any excited state.
Previously, for D−π–A molecules with the acceptor groups, cyanoacetic acid and rhodanine, these two specific processes were observed and associated with characteristic lifetimes.72 In addition, it was reported that in aprotic and nonpolar solvents, ESPT can occur from one dye molecule’s carboxylic acid to another hydrogen-bonded molecule (associated by dimerization), whereas in protic solvents, in which dimerization by hydrogen bonding is inhibited, this process can instead involve the molecules of the solvent.
A similar decrease was previously reported for a D−π–A molecule containing a carboxylic-substituted rhodanine acceptor group and was attributed to the occurrence of ESPT through the interaction of the compound with protic solvents.74 From the concentration-dependent lifetimes, it was also shown that ESPT in aprotic and nonpolar solvents can occur through intermolecular interaction between the molecule’s own carboxylic group and another molecule, associated by dimerization through hydrogen bonding.74 However, in our case, the latter effect can be excluded based on the low concentration used in the fluorescence lifetime measurements.
In addition, theoretical work previously reported for rhodanine-3-acetic acid D−π–A systems showed that the delocalization of the excited state is broken between the 4-oxo-2-thioxothiazolidine ring and the −COOH anchoring group because of the CH2 group, which affects the electron injection from molecules with rhodanine-like acceptors to the CB of TiO2.66 DFT calculations on dyes 3a and 3b are presented in the next section.
The DFT calculations indicate that dye 3b is slightly less planar than 3a in the region between the donor and the π-bridge, with a torsion angle between the phenyl group of triphenylamine and the thienothiophene group of 21.3°, compared to 18.8° in dye 3a.
Additionally, while the region between the thienothiophene spacer and the acceptor is essentially planar in 3a, favoring the efficient electron transfer into TiO2, in 3b, the −COOH acceptor/anchoring group is almost at a 90° plane relative to the rhodanine ring.
The HOMOs of 3a and 3b are π orbitals localized essentially on the triphenylamine donor and on the adjacent thienothiophene spacer.
Thus, the HOMO–LUMO excitation in these dyes has the nature of charge transfer from the triphenylamine donor to the anchoring cyanoacetic group in 3a and rhodanine-3-acetic acid in 3b.
We have studied the effect of the acceptor/anchoring group on two thieno[3,2-b]thiophene dyes 3a–b as sensitizers in nanocrystalline TiO2 DSSCs.
Compound 3a, bearing cyanoacetic acid as the acceptor/anchoring group, exhibits a better conversion efficiency in DSSCs than 3b, which has rhodanine-3-acetic acid as the electron withdrawing and anchoring unit.
Theoretical and experimental studies suggest that rhodanine-3-acetic acid is not a good anchoring group because of the broken conjugation between the acceptor and anchor from the intervening methylene group.
This confirms the importance of a donor, acceptor and anchor in the dye properties.
The results show that ITIC-M can form the alloy-like composite with Y6 but leave individual Y6 acceptor to conduct charge transfer with PM6 donor, which improves Voc but decreases Jsc because of poor charge transfer capacity of ITIC-M.
In recent years, the non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) have been widely used in TOSCs, which exhibit great potential in providing morphological advantages, reducing energy loss and expanding absorption range [17,18].
Peng’s group reported that in PBDB-T: PTB7-Th: SFBRCN ternary solar cells, there exist multiple energy transfer pathways from PBDB-T to PTB7-Th, and from SFBRCN to the above two polymer donors [20].
Chen’s group reported a new non-fullerene acceptor named BTP-M as the third component for the PM6:Y6 binary system, where an alloy-like composite is formed between Y6 and BTP-M [21].
reported a non-fullerene acceptor DTF-IC as the third component in the PBDB-T:IT-M system, which is able to provide a cascading energy level between host donor and acceptor to improve charge transfer [22].
In this article, we fabricated various ternary cell devices by incorporating ITIC-M (3,9-bis((Z)-1-(6-(dicyanomethylene)-2-methyl-5,6-dihydro-6H-cyclopenta[b]thiophen-6-one-5-yl)ethylene)-5,5,11,11-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)dithieno [2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-sindaceno [1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophene), an NFA as the additional acceptor material into (poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl-3-fleoro)thiophen-2-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione)]) PM6:Y6 (2,20-((2Z,20Z)-((12,13-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-3,9-diundecyl-12,13-dihydro-[1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-e]thieno[2″,30′:4′,50]thieno[20,30:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2-g]thieno[20,30:4,5]thieno[3,2-b]indole-2,10-diyl)bis(methanylylidene))bis(5,6-difluoro-3-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indene-2,1-diylidene))dimalononitrile) host blend films.
Besides, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level of ITIC-M are both located between that of PM6 and Y6, respectively, and Y6 and ITIC-M form an alloy acceptor to improve the open circuit voltage (Voc).
It is demonstrated that electrons will accumulate in the alloy acceptor because of the synergy between inefficient extraction and decreased exciton dissociation in ternary solar cells.
As the solutions for ternary devices, in one batch, the polymer donor to the acceptor ratio was kept constant as 1:1.2 and the ratio of Y6 to ITIC-M was changed.
The molecular structures of the organic polymer donor PM6, non-fullerene acceptor Y6 and ITIC-M used as the photoactive layer are shown in Figure 1c.
Voc increases with the augment ratio of ITIC-M in acceptors from 0.83 V to 0.91 V (device 1 to device 4), and obtains the highest value of 1.02 V in PM6:ITIC-M binary solar cell (device 5).
The same Voc increase (from 0.85 V to 0.91 V) can be observed in devices 6 to device 10, which is attributable to the alloy acceptor formed by Y6 and ITIC-M as shown in later discussion.
The changes of ECT indicate that it is plausible to consider Y6 and ITIC-M forming an alloy acceptor, and the ECT reaches maximum (1.67 eV) in PM6:ITIC-M binary device, which is consistent with the variation of Voc.
Coexistence of EL peaks at 1.46 eV and 1.53 eV means that excitons can be dissociated in the interface of PM6:Y6 and between PM6 and Y6-ITIC-M alloy acceptor while the content of Y6 is larger than ITIC-M.
According to the result of multiple peaks Gaussian fitting (Figure 6a, inset), all ITIC-M form an alloy acceptor with Y6 and extra PM6:Y6 conduct charge transfer at their interface.
In device 11, disappearance of EL peak located at 1.46 eV and appearance of the EL peaks located at 1.53 eV and at 1.67 eV indicate that carriers are recombined at the interface between PM6 and Y6:ITIC-M alloy acceptor and between PM6 and ITIC-M, which proves the bad electron transportation in ITIC-M.
Combining EL results of device 11 with the other devices, it can be concluded that parts of ITIC-M and Y6 form an alloy acceptor and extra Y6 or ITIC-M could conduct charge transfer with PM6 alone.
Combining two simple measurement methods, EL spectroscopy and PL spectroscopy, it is demonstrated that there are different transfer mechanisms in PM6:Y6:ITIC-M ternary solar cells: (i) coexistence of EL peaks at 1.46 eV and 1.53 eV means that parts of ITIC-M and Y6 formed alloy acceptor while individual Y6 exists and conducts charge transfer with PM6 alone, (ii) large overlap of PM6 PL (678 nm) and ITIC-M absorption (700 nm) indicates existence of energy transfer from PM6 to ITIC-M. Small IE is adverse to exciton dissociation and unbalance of carrier mobility leads to accumulation of electrons, finally improving recombination.
These include the miscibility of donor and acceptors [8], molecular orientation of donor and acceptors at the interface [9], energy difference between the bulk excitonic states and interfacial charge transfer (CT) states [10,11], domain size [12], and the interaction between donor and acceptors [13,14].
The PBnDT-FTAZ polymer consists of a benzodithiophene (BnDT) donor moiety and fluorinated benzotriazole (FTAZ) acceptor moiety.
This donor polymer has shown planar conformation, molecular face-on orientation, and high hole mobility [9,29].
The acceptor PCBM has (i) high electron mobility, (ii) ability to aggregate in BHJ, and (iii) good charge transport due to a delocalized lowest unoccupied molecular orbital over the entire surface of the molecule [30].
These properties of donor and acceptor molecules are desired for the fabrication of highly efficient PSCs.
PBnDT-FTAZ:PCBM blend solution (20 mg/mL) was prepared in chlorobenzene with a donor/acceptor weight ratio of 1:2.
Figure 1a shows the chemical structure of the donor PBnDT-FTAZ polymer, electron acceptor PCBM molecule, and DIO additive, whereas Figure 1b shows the absorption spectra of PBnDT-FTAZ:PCBM with and without DIO.
It has been reported that PBnDT-FTAZ also shows more J-like behavior when it is blended with non-fullerene acceptor and DIO is added [35].
The PL quenching is the indicator of the exciton splitting at the donor–acceptor interface and provides the indication of an upper limit to the yield of dissociated charges [46].
We observed the changes in aggregation, exciton delocalization, electron transfer efficiency from donor to acceptor, and charge generation when 3% DIO was added to the pristine blend solution.
Initially, the research was mainly focused on conjugated polymers through extending the conjugation length, minimizing the bond-length alternation, and/or enhancing the donor-acceptor charge transfer effect (14, 15).
Nowadays, the acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) concept has been proved to be one of the most fruitful molecular design strategies to construct small-molecule semiconductors with tuned bandgaps (17), where their molecular orbitals are formed through the hybridization of original noninteracting orbitals of the electron-donating “D” and electron-withdrawing “A” segments (18).
To demonstrate potential application in NIR OPDs of QC-based ultra-narrow bandgap molecules with low energy levels, photodiode-type devices were fabricated by blending polymer donors (fig.
Eeff is defined as the difference between the HOMO of the donor and the LUMO of the acceptor (Fig. 4A).
Thus, increasing Eeff, that is, downshifting the HOMO of donor and/or upshifting the LUMO of acceptor, is the key for further decreasing the noise current.
Meanwhile, it should be also considered that sizeable HOMO offset between the donor and acceptor is required for efficient exciton–to–charge transfer state conversion and high responsivity (60).
For a donor third component, it should exhibit deeper HOMO than that of PTB7-Th and much smaller μ0 with L2 relative to that of PTB7-Th:L2.
For an acceptor third component, it should exhibit higher LUMO than that of L2 as well as small μ0 with PTB7-Th.
High-performance acceptor material Y6 (21) exhibits higher LUMO energy of −4.03 eV (62) relative to L2 (Fig.
Homocoupling of monomers in a palladium-catalyzed copolymerization of donor–acceptor polymers affects the perfect alternating structure and may deteriorate the performance of such materials in solar cells.
We find that extension of the oligothiophene by one or two thiophenes and creating defects up to at least 10% does not significantly affect the opto-electronic properties of the polymers or their photovoltaic performance as electron donor in solar cells in combination with [6,6]-phenyl C71 butytic acid methyl ester as acceptor.
Homocoupling reactions are known to occur in the Suzuki,12 Stille,13 and direct arylation14 crosscoupling polycondenstation reactions that are commonly used to synthesize donor–acceptor small-molecules and polymers that find widespread use organic solar cells.
In DPP polymers, the effect of extended donor segment defects has not yet been systematically investigated, even though its occurrence, for the reasons mentioned above, can be expected.
Usually, DPP donor–acceptor polymers are synthesized in Stille coupling reactions employing a dibromide monomer containing the electron-deficient DPP unit and a bis(trialkylstannyl) monomer comprising the electron-rich moiety.
First, the energy levels of the polymer might be affected, because the extended donor defect can have energy levels that deviate from those of the polymer and cause a shift of the oxidation potential.
Because DPP polymers usually display a wider optical band gap (Eg,opt) when the donor block is extended, it is not expected that these defects will form energetic traps, although optical effects could still be visible.
Such small shift with extending the donor segment is also seen in the corresponding small molecule compounds T-DPP-3T-DDP-T and T-DPP-4T-DDP-T where the corresponding peaks are found at 3.16 eV for the 3T derivative and at 3.10 eV for the 4T derivative.
By deliberately creating defects in the monomers of donor–acceptor DPP polymers, we investigated the effect of homocoupling reactions between two organometallic trialkylstannyl monomers in palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling polymerization reactions.
We stress that this conclusion holds for the specific cases investigated and that for other donor–acceptor polymers the result could be different.
Homoleptic zinc(II) complexes of di(phenylacetylene)azadipyrromethene (e.g., Zn(WS3)2) are potential non-fullerene electron acceptors for organic photovoltaics.
The later complexes are expected to be stronger electron acceptors than Zn(WS3)2, and may enable charge transfer from other conjugated polymer donors that have lower energy levels than poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT).
We have shown that derivatives of Zn(ADP)2 are promising electron acceptors for organic photovoltaics (OPVs) [9–10].
However, the HOMO and LUMO energy levels of Zn(WS3)2 in solution are higher than that of the most popular electron acceptor phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM, Figure 1d).
Decreasing the energy levels of the parent Zn(WS3)2 would enable this new class of acceptors to be paired with other polymer donors that have lower HOMO and LUMO energy levels than P3HT.
The small size and strong electron-withdrawing properties of fluorine make it ideally suited to tune the molecular orbital (MO) energy levels of polymer donors in OPVs without major influence on the structure [17–22].
While fluorinated polymer donors are well known, fluorinated n-type materials are less common [13,30–31].
Zinc(II) chelates of L1 and L4 are expected to be stronger electron acceptors than Zn(WS3)2, and may enable charge transfer from other conjugated polymer donor that have lower energy levels than P3HT.
To test the potential of the new fluorinated zinc(II) complexes as electron acceptor, we fabricated bulk heterojunction OPVs in the inverted configuration using P3HT as the electron donor.
Preliminary results for OPVs using P3HT as the donor.
Zn(L4)2 shows the best potential to be paired with other electron donors of lower HOMO energy levels than P3HT.
Preliminary results in OPVs suggest that fluorination is generally beneficial for device performance of zinc(II) azadipyrromethene-based acceptors.
For all of the devices fabricated, the total concentration of the active layer was 20 mg/mL with varying donor-to-acceptor ratios (see Table 3).
The P3HT:PCBM devices had a total concentration of 40 mg/mL, 1:0.8 donor-to-acceptor ratio, were spun coat at 800 rpm for 40 s and 2000 rpm for 2 s and annealed at 120 °C for 15 min.
Non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) are excellent light harvesters, yet the origin of their high optical extinction is not well understood.
The calculations are first validated by comparison with experimental measurements in solution and solid state using common fullerene and non-fullerene acceptors.
This work provides a general understanding of the relationship between molecular structure and absorption strength in π-conjugated organic molecules, including NFAs, while introducing predictive machine-learning models of low computational cost.We combine experiments with density functional theory calculations, statistical analysis, and machine-learning to reveal the structure–absorption strength relationship and predict the absorption strength of organic non-fullerene acceptors.
Significant advances in the efficiency of OPVs (exceeding 19% in single junctions under 1 sun) have been made by trial-and-error with new but increasingly diverse materials, primarily non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) and mostly owing to their high absorption strength.
Organic photovoltaic (OPV) energy conversion is a promising option among next generation renewable and sustainable energy technologies for a low-carbon energy future.1–3 OPV has shown promising potential for various applications, such as indoor photovoltaics (PV),4–6 semi-transparent solar windows,7,8 PV greenhouses,9 and off-grid power supply.10 Recent OPV devices based on non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have demonstrated certified power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) exceeding 19% in a single junction configuration,11 approaching the efficiencies observed in inorganic semiconductor PV technologies such as crystalline silicon and perovskite solar cells, and far higher than values thought attainable in OPV when using fullerene derivatives as the electron-acceptors.12 The startling progress led by NFAs can be attributed to various advantages over fullerene derivatives, such as band-gap tunability, sharp absorption onset, high emission, high absorption, and low energy losses.13–15 Among these advantages, the absorption strength of state-of-the-art NFAs is particularly outstanding, as exemplified in Fig.
In comparison with workhorse fullerene acceptors, OPV devices based on highly absorbing NFAs could be made comparably thinner than the former, which exponentially raises the output power per weight (i.e.
(a) Molecular structures of typical organic acceptors, including PC61BM, PC71BM, O-IDFBR, O-IDTBR, ITIC, IT-4F, IDIC, IEICO, IEICO-4F, Y5, Y6, and Y7.
(b) Refractive index and (c) extinction coefficient of a larger set of typical organic acceptor thin films measured using VASE.
For the most representative NFAs examined, we verify that their frontier molecular orbital energy levels as retrieved from TDDFT calculations are properly aligned, relative to those of a set of common polymer donors, for the NFAs to act as electron acceptor in a bulk heterojunction blend with those donors (Fig.
By comparing λ1,p in a selection of small molecule acceptors geometrically optimized with and without side chains (Fig.
We have demonstrated that TDDFT calculations agree reasonably well with the experimental maximum molar extinction coefficient (εd,max) in solution state by exploiting a database of TDDFT-optimized small molecular acceptors (NFAs) and donor oligomers collected over the years.
Another inverse structure, using non-oxide n-type material as electron acceptor composed of poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) poly(styrenesulfonate)(PEDOT:PSS)/perovskite/fullerene planar junction, has been demonstrated with great success and remarkable conversion efficiency recently78922.
The effects of these two fullerene derivatives on their photovoltaic performances are very similar to what previously reported in OPV, which the device composed of PC71BM acceptor has slightly blue-shifted IPCE with lower voltage and higher current characteristics44454647.
Since PCBM has been verified to be an effective electron acceptor in perovskite/PCBM junction891516224950, the above evidence confirms that the observed broad absorption band is mainly due to the formation of the NiO+ cationic species upon photo excitation of the perovskite/NiO film at 460 nm.
The organic active layer, which is responsible for the absorption of light and charge carrier generation, consists of, at least, two organic materials, an electron donor and an electron acceptor.
When these two materials are blended, resulting in a bulk heterojunction (BHJ), quite a high power conversion efficiency (PCE) can be achieved due to a large-area interface between the electron donor and the electron acceptor.2,3 Usually, in BHJ-OPVs, the electron donor is a polymer.
This allows for obtaining sufficiently fine material domains of the same order of magnitude as that of the exciton diffusion length, which allows for excitons to meet an electron donor/electron acceptor interface and to dissociate into free charges.
All this makes that high power conversion efficiency OPVs with small molecule-based donor materials were carried out.4,5 However, whatever the electron donor used, it is not easy to control and stabilize the morphology of the BHJ-OPVs.6 Therefore, it could be interesting to use small molecules in planar heterojunctions (PHJs), and such planar structures have already allowed to achieve high power conversion efficiency.7 Although BHJ-OPVs are generally more efficient than PHJ-OPVs, the latter have several advantages in fundamental works as simple models to investigate interfaces of the OPVs.8 Therefore, in the present work, we have studied PHJ-OPVs, using commercial small molecules as organic materials, and we have focused our study on the effect of a new original buffer layer between the cathode and the electron acceptor, the electron donor being SubPc and the electron acceptor being C60.
In the case of the anode, it is necessary to have a high WF, and MoO3, with WF ≥ 5.3 eV, is a very efficient hole-transporting layer (HTL).9 For instance, even if the WF of the metal anode is small, such as that of Al with WF = 4.3 eV, when this metal is coupled with MoO3, the hybrid electrode Al/MoO3 is very efficient in extracting holes.10 Therefore, in the present work, we used MoO3 as the HTL and we focused our interest on the cathode/electron acceptor interface.
Such a result confirms a previous study dedicated to PHJ-inverted OPVs using a different electron donor.26 In the presence of K, since optimum performance is obtained for 1.5 nm of K, while it decreases for the thicker K layer, we probed the thicker Alq3 layer, but here too there is no improvement in the performances.
Regarding LiF, it is well known that it is very efficient as an electron-injection (collection) layer, which was interpreted in terms of dissociation of LiF and subsequent Li doping in the organic material or large interface dipole, which induces the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the electron acceptor to move close to the Fermi level of the cathode or a tunneling increase by insulating the interface layer.37 More precisely, in the case of deposition of an alkaline metal or compound onto a Alq3 layer, due to the low work function of the alkaline, there is no Alq3 structure modification but formation of Alq3– and Li+ radicals.38 This effect was experimentally studied in the case of LiF/Alq3, which results in an enhanced electron exchange between the cathode and the electron acceptor.
This enhancement may be attributed to a decrease of the barrier between the cathode Fermi level and the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the electron donor, decreasing the cathode work function and/or creating a voltage drop across the interface layer through dipole formation.
The original synthesis of TTZ5 required three main synthetic operations to obtain the key intermediate aldehyde 6: (a) the preparation of thiazolothiazole-based spacer 1 (Scheme 1), (b) the preparation of boronic ester 3, containing the donor group (Scheme 2) and (c) the introduction of the donor and the acceptor moieties through two sequential Suzuki-Miyaura cross-couplings (Scheme 1).
Functionalization of TzTz 1 with donor and acceptor groups through Suzuki-Miyaura cross-couplings.
Disappointingly, when the same conditions were tested to introduce the donor group by reaction with bromide 9, no conversion to product 6 was observed.
To reach this goal, we decided to explore a different approach, inspired by those previously reported for the direct arylation-based synthesis of D-π-A dyes for DSSCs (Lin et al., 2015; Lu et al., 2017), and consisting in the reversal of the order in the introduction of the donor and acceptor groups (Scheme 2).
Thus, the direct arylation of the starting material 1 was first performed with donor bromide 9 and then the resulting intermediate 11 was reacted with electron-poor bromide 7.
The reaction proceeded smoothly, with a complete conversion of donor bromide 9; unfortunately, however, a complete chromatographic separation of product 11 and unreacted starting material 1 was almost impossible, hampering the isolation of pure 11.
Finally, we found that, for the introduction of the donor group, acetic acid was superior to pivalic acid, since it reduced the relevance of possible side-reactions such as a partial oligomerization of 1.
Indeed, the most expensive steps in the previously reported synthesis were both the desymmetrization of diiodide 2 (cost of compound 4 – 1729.07 €/g) and the introduction of the acceptor moiety (cost of compound 6 – 3496.62 €/g), while desymmetrization of compound 1 was the most expensive step for both the C-H/Stille route and one-pot C-H activation route (800.70 and 1082.19 €/g, respectively).
Furthermore, among all the reagents used to introduce the donor group, boronic ester 3 was the most expensive one (cost of compound 3, 281.91 €/g vs. 88.03 €/g for compound 9 and 75.25 €/g for compound 10).
In addition, such approach allows the easy and versatile synthesis of new potential thiazolothiazole-based dyes, since a rapid screening of new substituents could be easily performed by changing the donor and/or acceptor groups.
The structure of TBBI, Me-TBBI and TIBN, Me-TIBN molecules with neutral and ionic states are optimized using DFT level of theory with B3LYP functional38–41 in conjunction with 6-31G(d,p) basis set, as implemented in the GAUSSIAN 16 package.41 Energy of HOMO, LUMO, ionization potential and electron affinity are calculated after calculating the energy of neutrals and ionic states of using range-separated LC-ωPBE functional with tuned range-separation parameter (ω) on the B3LYP functional optimized geometries.9,42 Range-separated DFT functional (here, LC-ωPBE) with optimized ω provides significantly improved results for donor–acceptor systems than B3LYP, which strongly over delocalize the wave function.43,44 The omega value is optimized by minimizing J2 as follows,42,454where, εH and IP are the HOMO energy and ionization potential of a given moiety, respectively, and N is the number of electron in the moiety.
The range-separated DFT functional (with optimal ω, see Table 3) estimates HOMO and LUMO energy level for donor–acceptor molecules with high accuracy.
Relative to widely used solution-processed bulk heterojunction organic solar cells (OSCs), planar heterojunction (PHJ) OSCs by vacuum-depositing active layers sequentially avoid tedious control of the blend film morphology, and it is easy to understand the physical process at the donor/acceptor interface.
Here we summarize the developments of electron donor and acceptor materials for vacuum-deposited PHJ OSCs in the past decades and discuss the relationship between molecular structure and device performance.
In addition to some basic requirements for high performance organic photovoltaic materials, such as broad and strong absorption, matched energy levels between donors and acceptors, and high charge carrier mobility, we suggest that extending the exciton diffusion length of organic photovoltaic materials should boost PHJ OSCs gradually become another option for organic photovoltaic application.
The bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells greatly increase the donor/acceptor (D/A) interfacial area compared with the PHJ solar cells, leading to enhanced efficiency of the exciton separation.
The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OSCs has exceeded 18%4 with the emergence of efficient nonfullerene fused ring electron-acceptor materials.
An ideal morphology of the BHJ active layer was required to have a bicontinuous interdigitated donor and acceptor network to achieve effective exciton dissociation and electron/hole transport.5 However, the actual morphologies are far from this requirement due to the random mixing nature of the donor and acceptor during solution processing.
The relationship between the structure of the active layer materials and device performance is not clear, mainly because of the complex structure of BHJs.6 Optimizing the domain size and orientation of the blended films remain a big task for new donors or acceptors for BHJ devices.
In contrast to BHJ structures, PHJs have some unique advantages:8 (a) the well-defined interfacial structures may eliminate the influence of BHJ morphology metastability, which is beneficial to improving the stability of devices; (b) in PHJ devices, the carrier generation primarily occurs at the planar heterojunction, and then holes/electrons transport within the donor/electron phases, respectively, which induces an enhanced charge carrier lifetime and reduced charge carrier recombination and then benefits the improvements of short-circuit current density (JSC) and fill factors (FF); in contrast, the complex intermixing of the donor and acceptor phases in BHJ leads to an increased charge carrier recombination; (c) D–A vertical separation through tuning the sequence of D and A deposition could be expected to decrease energy disorder, reduce nonradiative combination, and then decrease energy losses, leading to high VOC; for example, in CuPc: C60 based PHJ and BHJ devices, the VOC of the PHJ device is larger than that of BHJ device, which is a result of longer charge carrier lifetimes and smaller active recombination region;9 (d) donor and acceptor layers in PHJ can be optimized separately for excellent performance; (e) PHJ structures are employed in many theoretical models for accurately understanding the relationship between molecular structure and device performance, because fewer assumptions and parameters were required.
Molecular structures of donor and acceptor materials through vacuum deposition.
The key factor to affect the PCE of vacuum-deposited PHJ solar cells is the optical and electrical performance of the small-molecule active layer (donor and acceptor) materials, which possess defined molecular structure, high purity (purified by sublimation), suitability for large-scale production, and good batch repeatability.
Since the first PHJ solar cells achieved a PCE of 0.95% employing copper phthalocyanine (CuPc) as donor and perylene tetracarboxylic derivative (PV) as acceptor (Figure 2), researches have focused on enhancing the efficiency of PHJ OSCs through exploring new photovoltaic materials.2 Dyes, fused acenes, as well as oligothiophenes are considered to be potential donor materials in PHJ OSCs.
Thompson and co-workers reported a novel donor, SubPc, which showed stronger absorption and deeper highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level than CuPc.
When combining C60 acceptor, a PCE of 2.5% was obtained with JSC of 6.1 mA cm–2 in the solar cells employing a SubNc donor.11 Chloroaluminum phthalocyanine (ClAlPc) possesses an absorption peak at 755 nm, which red-shifted about 135 nm compared to that of CuPc.
developed a new donor, PdPc, by substituting the Cu atom of CuPc with Pd, and the device demonstrated a higher PCE of 1.3%.
The devices that used 2,4-bis[4-(N,N-diisobutylamino)-2,6-dihydroxyphenyl] squaraine (SQ) as donor and C60 as acceptor exhibited a PCE of 3.2% under 1 sun and AM1.5G-simulated solar irradiation.14
Kippelen and co-workers developed PHJ devices, and employing pentacene as donor and C60 as acceptor achieved a PCE of 2.7% with high EQE values in the red region of the spectrum, which can be attributed to the large exciton diffusion length (65 ± 16 nm) of pentacene film estimated by combining EQE measure and steady-state diffusion equations.15 In 2005, the PHJ structures were fabricated with tetracene (high mobility and large photosensitivity)/C60, which delivered a PCE of 2.3 ± 0.5% with higher VOC of 0.58 V than that (0.36 V) of the control devices based on the pentacene donor.16 Thompson et al.
Thiophenes are potential skeletons for building photovoltaic donor materials due to their good charge-transporting property and strong electron-donating properties.
Bäuerle and co-workers synthesized a new donor (DCV5T), comprised with five α-conjugated thiophene rings (5T) as the electron-donating unit and two DCV groups as the electron-withdrawing unit.
DCV5T possesses relatively small optical band gap of 1.77 eV and low HOMO energy level (−5.6 eV); thus, an efficient PHJ OSC with PCE up to 3.4% can be achieved under illumination at 118 mW cm–2 simulated sunlight.18 After that, they developed a novel A–D–A–D–A-type donor (BTDA-TFA-Bu) bearing benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazole (BTDA) as the core and trifluoroacetyl (TFA) as the end groups.
The acceptor materials play an equally important role with donor materials for high performance vacuum deposition PHJ OSCs.
However, there are very few reports in the literature on new acceptor materials for PHJ OSCs.
In 2001, Forrest’s group fabricated a device based on CuPc as donor and C60 as acceptor, which delivered a PCE of (3.6 ± 0.2)% under AM1.5 spectral illumination of 150 mW/cm2.
Relative to Tang’s device based on CuPc/PTCBI in 1986, C60 shows longer exciton diffusion length, (77 ± 10) Å, compared to that of PTCBI, (30 ± 3) Å, which was estimated by combining the photocurrent test with the theoretical model.21 Along with relatively long exciton diffusion length, the anisotropy of electron transfer and good electron transporting made C60 dominate the acceptor materials in vacuum-processed devices.24 However, the poor absorption in the visible and deeper lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level of C60 limit the photocurrent generation and VOC in C60-based devices, respectively.
SubPc not only showed good performance as a donor material but also acted as an electron acceptor when combining some other donors with high energy levels.
When employing α-sexithiophene (α-6T) as donor, the device achieved a PCE of 4.7% and 6.0% used SubPc or SubNc as an acceptor due to complementary absorption (Figure 3a) and matched energy level (Figure 3b) between α-6T and SubPc or SubNc.
Furthermore, a trilayer cascade structure was prepared comprising SubPc and SubNc as acceptors and α-6T as donor, with an efficient two-step exciton-dissociation mechanism.
In addition, a high VOC of 0.96 V is realized due to the enhanced energy level alignment between α-6T and SubPc/SubNC, leading to a remarkable PCE up to 8.4% (Figure 3d).22 Jones and co-workers further adjusted the energy level of SubPc by introducing chlorine atoms to obtain Cl6-SubPc, the PHJ devices based on SubPc, as the donor delivered a highest VOC of 1.31 V. More importantly, it was demonstrated that the devices had better stability when using Cl6-SubPc as an acceptor instead of C60 under continuous illumination in a N2 atmosphere.
Several photovoltaic materials, especially donor materials, have been developed, but most of the devices delivered relatively low PCEs.
In order to obtain high-performance PHJ OSCs, new high efficiency photoactive materials for PHJ devices should be developed with the following requirements: (a) relatively low molecular weight and excellent thermal stability are preferred requirements for easy sublimation; (b) narrow optical bandgap and high extinction coefficient for obtaining higher JSC; (c) matched HOMO/LUMO energy levels between donor and acceptor to achieve large VOC and reduce energy loss; (d) long exciton diffusion length for excitons reach the D/A interface effectively and make it possible to prepare relatively thick devices to fully utilize solar energy; (e) high and balanced electron and hole mobility of acceptor or donor, respectively, for higher JSC and FF.
However, with the development of nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs) for BHJ OSCs, it has been reported that some fused-ring NFAs have longer exciton diffusion distances than those of traditional photovoltaic materials.
Light absorbed in the organic layers forms tightly bound excitons that are split into free electrons and holes using heterojunctions of electron donor and acceptor materials, which are then extracted at electrodes to give useful electrical power.
A key difference from inorganic semiconductors is that primary photoexcitations in organic semiconductors are strongly bound Frenkel and charge transfer excitons.11,12 Typical binding energies of singlet excitons have been reported to be between 0.1 and 0.4 eV.13−15 In order to split an exciton into a charge pair, a heterojunction of electron donor and acceptor materials is used in which the HOMO and LUMO energies of the acceptor are lower than those of the donor16 (Figure 1B,C).
This energy offset drives electron transfer from the excited electron donor to acceptor and hole transfer from the excited electron acceptor to donor.
Schematic illustration of charge generation in organic photovoltaic materials which involves (A) light absorption and the generation of a singlet exciton with opposite “up” and “down” spins, followed by energy transfer to a type II heterojunction of an electron donor and acceptor and then (B) electron or (C) hole transfer at the heterojunction.
It has been shown experimentally that the rate of photoinduced electron transfer (kET) decreases exponentially with the distance (RDA) between donor and acceptor17−201Here k0 is the electron transfer rate at the donor–acceptor contact and β is the attenuation factor.
These findings suggest that quantum mechanical tunnelling is the dominant mechanism.21 The β parameter in covalently linked donor–bridge–acceptor systems was found to be bridge-specific and also to depend on the orientation between donor and acceptor as well as their electronic properties.18−20 For dispersed donors and acceptors in solution or in organic glasses, as well as for pairs linked through nonconjugated bridges, values of β > 1 Å–1 are usually observed.17 These results indicate that electron transfer is limited to subnanometer distances between the donor and acceptor.
Excitons must migrate to a heterojunction between the electron donor and the electron acceptor in order to generate charge carriers.
Excitons can be transported to a heterojunction by Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the electron donor and electron acceptor and by exciton diffusion in the donor or acceptor materials.
Two organic photovoltaic architectures of donor and acceptor materials are generally used to harvest sunlight.
In the first, shown on the left in Figure 2, the donor and acceptor materials are deposited as a simple bilayer structure, while on the right, the two are mixed throughout the active layer to form a bulk heterojunction.
In both diagrams, the donor region is light blue and the acceptor region is red, and the key defines the other elements.
In a bilayer, both the diffusion length and FRET distance are limited by a finite exciton lifetime to distances typically less than 20 nm in organic films;22−27 therefore, a maximum useful thickness of donor or acceptor layers in a bilayer is <40 nm, even with an optimized exciton diffusion length and FRET.
Because of a limited width of the absorption spectra of organic materials, for the best coverage of the solar spectrum, one has to use donor and acceptor materials with distinct absorption spectra.
Power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of around 6% have been achieved in research solar cells with 1 cm2 active area using organic bilayers.28 It is worth noting that high-efficiency bilayer solar cells typically have a rough interface between donor and acceptor layers (about 16 nm RMS) that increases the interface area and helps to harvest excitons from donor and acceptor layers.28 The roughness occurs naturally by vacuum sublimation of polycrystalline films or by sequential deposition of donor and acceptor layers from solution using different solvents for each layer.29
The limited number of excitons reaching the acceptor gives poor light harvesting in bilayers and so severely limits their PCE.
Recently, a PCE of 8.4% has been achieved with a three-layer structure comprising two electron acceptors and a donor and utilizing FRET between the acceptor layers.28 We describe this approach in more detail in section 2.5.
This has been successfully implemented by blending electron donor and acceptor materials, where spontaneous separation of donor and acceptor phases forms a nanostructure that is known as a bulk heterojunction.30−32 This approach (Figure 2, right) enables light harvesting from materials with a short exciton diffusion length.
Blends can be deposited from solution using a common solvent or a mixture of solvents or by coevaporation of donor and acceptor materials.
In the overall schematic shown in Figure 2, the bulk heterojunction is shown at a nanoscale level, with a donor phase (light blue) surrounded by an acceptor phase (light red).
Absorption of light in the donor phase leads to the formation of excitons (dark blue ellipse) that may be some distance from the acceptor phase.
If the two components mix well, then every single donor molecule is close enough to an acceptor molecule and almost every exciton can migrate to the donor–acceptor interface.
This can proceed by site-to-site exciton diffusion within the donor phase until the exciton reaches the interface with the acceptor, or it can occur by direct FRET from the donor to the acceptor.
This contrasts with the bilayer case, where many are lost inside the donor layer unless it is significantly thinner than needed for light absorption, as already discussed.
In the bulk heterojunction, once the exciton is at the donor–acceptor interface it dissociates into a geminate electron–hole pair.
The holes are transported in the donor phase and electrons in the acceptor phase; therefore, the charge transport pathways in the planar heterojunction solar cell are straightforward provided there is a sufficient built-in electric field from the difference of the work functions of the electrodes.
The free carrier generation and their transport to the correct electrodes in bulk heterojunctions relies on continuous and uninterrupted donor and acceptor phases.
The rate of nongeminate charge recombination in bulk heterojunctions depends on its morphology.33−35 In a heterojunction with small donor and acceptor domains and very high interface area, a charge is more likely to encounter the interface with the other component of the blend and hence more likely to recombine with its opposite charge.
This complex series of steps involved in light harvesting has led to intensive research efforts on bulk heterojunction solar cells, and recently, multiple 1 cm2 active area research cells have been demonstrated with PCE above 10%.36−40 The progress was achieved by rational design of donor and acceptor materials with efficient light absorption and good charge transport, morphology optimization of the active layers, and development of new charge transporting layers.
Recent advances in bulk heterojunction solar cells using conjugated polymers as electron donors are described in a review by Yu and co-workers.7
Because electron transfer in organic materials occurs only at subnanometre distances between molecules, excitons must migrate to a heterojunction between the electron donor and the electron acceptor in order to generate charge carriers.
When the emitting and absorbing dipoles can be approximated as point dipoles, the energy transfer rate has a simple expression413where τ is the luminescence lifetime of the excited chromophore in the absence of energy transfer, R is the distance between the exciton emission dipole and the energy-accepting dipole, and R0 is the Förster radius, which depends on the photoluminescence quantum yield of the excited chromophore, the angle between the donor emission and acceptor absorption transition dipole moments, and the spectral overlap J, which was defined above.
The advantage of this technique is that it measures energy transfer to the donor–acceptor interface in a bilayer and is directly linked to light harvesting in planar heterojunctions.
If exciton transport is studied in an electron donor material, then it is best to use a layer of an electron acceptor as a quencher and vice versa.
To study exciton diffusion in electron donor materials it is common to use a layer of fullerene molecules as a quencher, which can quench by electron transfer and FRET.26,69 When using a vacuum-deposited C60 fullerene as a quencher, care must be taken to avoid interdiffusion of C60 molecules with the donor molecules, which would lead to an overestimation of the exciton diffusion length (Figure 5).67 For this purpose, the C60 derivatives can be cross-linked67 or tethered to the substrate.26
For example, Luhman and Holmes have obtained consistent values of the singlet exciton diffusion length in films of boron subphthalocyanine chloride using three different electron acceptors with very different Förster radii R0 for FRET to the acceptor, which they measured independently.69
showed that the quenching rate of PL in films of the conjugated polymer PTB7 by electron transfer is at a maximum for an energy offset of ∼0.4 eV between the electron affinities of PTB7 and acceptor molecules.81 This dependence was described well by the Marcus theory of electron transfer.82 For the optimum energy offset, the exciton is quenched on the first encounter with the quencher and the above-described analysis can be used.
Modeling of the photocurrent in an early polymer solar cell consisting of the polymer poly(p-phenylenevinylene) [PPV] and a perylene acceptor layer was performed by Halls and Friend.107 It was assumed that all excitons excited within a diffusion length of the interface are ionized at the interface, lead to separated charges, and are then extracted.
The one-dimensional diffusion length  of singlet excitons in organic films typically ranges from 5 to 20 nm.24 To absorb most of the incident light, the thickness of donor and acceptor layers has to be at least 100 nm; therefore, there is a strong drive to increase the exciton diffusion length in order to improve light harvesting in planar heterojunctions.
showed an increase of the exciton diffusion length from 11 to 15 nm in the electron donor boron subphthalocyanine chloride by diluting it into a wide-energy-gap host material UGH2.124 The main reason for the increased exciton diffusion length was a 6-fold increase of the exciton lifetime.
Using this approach, they made planar-heterojunction solar cells with the fullerene C60 as an electron acceptor and obtained a power conversion efficiency of 4.4%, which is 30% higher than that of the control cell made using undiluted subphthalocyanine molecules.
As the diffusion proceeds in a donor material by a random walk, the range is limited, as excitations are as likely to hop away from the acceptor as toward it.
There is therefore a strong desire to direct energy transport to planar heterojunctions between electron donors and acceptors.
In contrast to exciton diffusion, FRET between electron donor and acceptor materials is directional and can bring excitons directly to a heterojunction.
FRET can enhance the exciton harvesting distance in bulk heterojunctions;26 however, much bigger enhancement can be gained in planar heterojunctions.22−25,27,69 The general equation to describe the rate of FRET from a point donor to a slab of acceptor molecules of thickness Δ is12610where z is the distance between the excited donor and the acceptor film, τ is the PL decay time of the donor in the absence of energy transfer, and d0 is the critical transfer distance (Figure 14).
The parameter d0 is typically 2–3 times larger than the Förster radius R0 and is proportional to the density of energy of accepting chromophores in the acceptor layer.22−26,126 The transfer rate decreases much more slowly with distance than in the case of energy transfer between single chromophores, so interlayer FRET can be efficient over long distances.
Schematic of FRET from an exciton in a donor layer to a slab of acceptor molecules.
designed a three-layer planar heterojunction solar cell using an α-sexithiophene (α-6T) electron donor, a boron subnaphthalocyanine chloride (SubNc) electron acceptor, and an additional light-harvesting layer of boron subphthalocyanine chloride (SubPc) (Figure 15).28 In this structure, excitons generated in SubPc transfer their energy to SubNc and subsequently dissociate at both interfaces by hole or electron transfer.
They demonstrated a light-harvesting efficiency of 50% in a trilayer made of a diluted 20-nm-thick outer layer of SubPc, a 10-nm-thick layer of neat SubPc, and a layer of the electron acceptor NTCDA.129 Although this efficiency is lower than that in energy-cascade structures, it can potentially give a higher open circuit voltage because there is no loss of excitation photon energy in its transfer between layers.
Because charge transfer between electron donor and acceptor is a short-range process, initially an exciton is split into a bound geminate electron–hole pair.
The most common technique is ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy, where the formation of characteristic absorption bands of radical cations in an electron donor and radical anions in an electron acceptor can be observed.
Faster electron transfer from hot vibronic states is also supported by theoretical studies.153 Even the lowest-energy exciton in the donor or acceptor material, which is marked S1 in Figure 16, can couple almost resonantly to a hot CT state, where one of the carriers is delocalized and it can experience a short-distance ballistic transport before it forms a polaron.
studied the relaxation of hot CT states generated in planar heterojunctions of copper phthalocyanine and electron acceptors C60 and C70 using transient two-photon photoemission spectroscopy.154 In this technique, a pump pulse generated CT states by splitting excitons at the heterojunction, whereas a probe pulse was incident upon the same spot after a variable time delay and led to ionization of the sample.
The bent arrows indicate incoherent carrier hopping between sites on donor or acceptor, with red bent arrows representing thermally activated hopping.
However, several studies have shown that the internal quantum efficiency (the ratio of collected charges and absorbed photons at the short circuit condition) in high-performance bulk heterojunctions is independent of the energy of absorbed photons, including a direct excitation of the relaxed intermolecular CT states formed between donor and acceptor with very low photon energy (indicated by a dashed line in Figure 16).155−160 The fraction of light absorbed by these CT states was determined using electroluminescence measurements and was found to be lower by 4 orders of magnitude as compared to intramolecular absorption by the donor and acceptor.155−160 Direct excitation of CT states without excess energy can generate an electron–hole pair only on the nearest-neighbor donor–acceptor pair with a separation distance of less than 1 nm.
These findings are consistent with observations of rather slow charge generation in efficient photovoltaic blends of poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) with fullerene acceptors prepared by thermal annealing, where the majority of charge pairs were found to be generated on a picosecond time scale, presumably limited by exciton diffusion to a heterojunction.161−164 Annealing has been shown to triple the power conversion efficiency of P3HT:fullerene bulk-heterojunction solar cells to ∼4%,165,166 suggesting that slower charge generation in these materials is not an obstacle to device efficiency.
Slower charge generation in annealed blends suggests larger domain sizes of donor and acceptor, which help dissociation of bound charge pairs into free carriers, as discussed in section 4.2.2.
In very efficient photovoltaic blends of the electron-donating polymer PTB7 with the acceptor PC71BM, charge pair generation has been observed on a 100–300 fs time scale.77,167 These results suggest that the rate of electron transfer at the heterojunction does not have to be ultrafast to achieve high device efficiencies in organic photovoltaics.
In the next section, we discuss recent findings on how the rate depends on the energy offset between donor and acceptor.
measured electron transfer rates from thermally relaxed excitons in the conjugated polymer PTB7 to different electron acceptors in the blends using time-resolved fluorescence quenching.81 Measurements with very low and very high loadings of acceptor were used to separate electron transfer at a short distance to an acceptor (<1 nm) from exciton diffusion in the PTB7 phase.
These results suggest that the energy loss at the donor–acceptor interface can be reduced by reducing the reorganization energy and maintaining the optimum offset of electron affinities or ionization potentials.
Although the driving force influences the rate of electron transfer from donor to acceptor, its effect on dissociation of photogenerated charge pairs into free carriers is not significant.
For example, charge pair generation with 15–20% efficiency has been observed in films of conjugated polymers that are used as electron donors,169−171 and neat films of fullerene derivatives, which are commonly used as acceptors.148,172
Generation of bound charge pairs inside donor or acceptor domains can be detrimental to device performance because these pairs often recombine before they can be spatially separated into donor and acceptor phases.
To avoid recombination losses, the morphology of bulk heterojunction has to support fast extraction of holes and electrons into the donor and acceptor domains, respectively, where they can be transported to the correct electrodes, and this is discussed in section 4.2 of this review.
Several studies suggested that Coulomb attraction is compensated by the free energy cascade from interfacial CT states to spatially separated charged states in the bulk of donor and acceptor domains.77,145,175−178 This concept is supported by observations of mixed donor–acceptor phases in the boundaries between pure domains in bulk heterojunctions77,179 and findings that the difference in ionization potentials and electron affinities is favorable for directional charge transport from a mixed phase into pure donor and acceptor domains.176,180,181 Higher entropy of spatially separated charges as compared to CT states can also contribute to the free energy gain.175 Gao et al.
have estimated that the entropy contribution is sufficient to diminish the activation energy needed for pair dissociation when it is spaced by just 4 nm, assuming uninterrupted three-dimensional charge transport at 300 K and a dielectric constant of 3.5.174 In that case, charge pairs separated by >4 nm can be considered unbound and can dissociate into free carriers provided there are continuous donor and acceptor domains to support charge transport.
The dissociation efficiency has been shown to increase with increasing electric field up to 0.05–0.5 MV cm–1 and to saturate above these values.148,187,188 The dissociation efficiency was found to saturate at lower field values when polymers with longer conjugation length were used as electron donors.
Free carrier generation in these blends occurs through relaxed charge transfer states and is influenced by blend morphology, energetics of mixed and pure donor and acceptor phases, charge delocalization, and carrier mobility.
Free carrier generation in planar heterojunctions has been found to depend on applied electric field and conjugation length of the electron donor, indicating that the mechanism could be different from that in the bulk heterojunction.
So far we have recounted that absorption of light by donor and acceptor materials in a bulk heterojunction readily occurs; however, harvesting that light requires, among other things, getting the formed exciton to the donor:acceptor interface via exciton diffusion or FRET and getting free charges through the active layer to their respective electrodes to be extracted, as discussed above.
Consequently, it is clear that the structural arrangement of the donor and acceptor in the blend—the morphology—is of vital importance to enable light harvesting.
If the donor and acceptor are too far apart, then excitons will not be able to traverse the distance to enable them to be split into charge pairs, and if the distance is too short, then while excitons will easily dissociate, sufficiently separate pathways of material will not be available to suppress recombination of the readily formed charge pairs.
Measuring the morphology on such length scales is very challenging; the donor and acceptor are typically both carbon-based materials, soft in nature, with similar physical properties.
Material composition can be derived by exploiting the clear conductivity differences between p-type electron donors and n-type electron acceptors used in the BHJ blend.
This enables a photocurrent map to be built that can be qualitatively analogous to the donor:acceptor concentration.
Additionally, mixing between the donor and acceptor tends to “blur” the SNOM images, making high resolutions difficult to achieve.
OPV blends were investigated by Schubert et al., who looked at the absorption of light by the donor and acceptor to build up maps of the two materials.203 Shown in Figure 20 are maps of the donor P3HT absorption in blends cast from different solvents, indicating both the changes in nanomorphology and the mixing enhancements that lead to loss of contrast with the acceptor.
(C and D) Optical density (absorption) measurements of P3HT blended with a naphthalene-polymer-based acceptor.
The qualifier on this promising route is that both the donor and acceptor in OPV blends are primarily carbon-based, and thus, the two materials have a very similar response to electrons, thus measuring contrast can be challenging and frequently requires the application of specific blends with favorable contrast and advanced measurement techniques or sample preparation.
However, a hybrid solar cell, i.e., an organic donor with an inorganic acceptor, is a situation that gives strong contrast.
Shown in Figure 22 is a HRTEM image of a blend of the small molecule donor material p-DTS(FBTTh2)2 with PC61BM.
As noted above, compositional information is lacking; thus, it is not known if the crystallite is set within the amorphous material of the donor itself or of the acceptor.
For example, as shown schematically in Figure 23, if the exciton diffusion coefficient of a donor material (blue) is known, and it is surrounded by an acceptor material (red), then with sufficient time resolution, the Smoluchowski equation can be used to determine the radius, r, of the donor domain.
This method relies on a presumed knowledge of the geometry of the donor domain (spherical, cylindrical, oblate spheroid, etc.)
Schematic of time-resolved PL derived morphology with donor material (blue region in center) surrounded by an acceptor (red region).
An exciton generated in the center of the donor region has an exciton diffusion radius (LD) denoted by the dashed line, which should correspond to the natural unquenched PL lifetime.
Measured shorter PL lifetimes can enable (presuming a spherical geometry) the radius to the acceptor (r) to be determined.
A disadvantage is that the blend chosen for this technique has to be amenable to analysis, with relatively pure phases of material present to enable modeling of the diffusion to a quenching surface; if the quencher is too dispersed in the blend, i.e., if the blend has a significant mixed phase, then excitons are quenched without having to diffuse to the donor:acceptor interface.
With an understanding of the key techniques to measure morphology, we now turn our attention to study the key donor:acceptor blend morphologies that have been reported over the last 15 years.
In discussing the morphology here, we are particularly thinking of its role in light harvesting and the operation of the device: as already explained, in order to harvest light in a bulk heterojunction organic photovoltaic cell, the donor and acceptor domains need to be within an exciton diffusion length (typically ∼10 nm) of where the light is absorbed.
The number of donor:acceptor combinations in the development of OPVs is very large, so we focus on three key generations of OPV donor polymer materials, namely, poly[2-methoxy-5-(3,7-dimethyloctyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] (MDMO-PPV), poly[3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl] (P3HT), and poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]] (PTB7).
The chemical structures for these three key donor materials are shown in Figure 25.
Chemical structures of three donor materials (MDMO-PPV, P3HT, PTB7) and two acceptor materials (PC61BM, PC71BM) that are examined in this section.
Each donor material represents a key generational point in the development of OPVs, with MDMO-PPV blends reaching power conversion efficiencies of 1–3%,212−214 P3HT 3–5%,165,215−218 and PTB7 7–10%.36,37,219 Here we will examine the efforts to understand the morphology of blends containing these donor materials to date.
It is worth noting that recently small molecule donors have begun to match the performance of polymeric materials.220−223 The morphologies discussed in this review can be pertinent to small molecule BHJs, but we have chosen not to feature any specific study of a small molecule blend owing to the potentially different physics and chemistry at play in material organization (e.g., crystallinity, miscibility).
A variety of acceptors have been used in fabricating BHJ cells based on these donors, but generally, fullerene derivatives such as [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) or [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM), both chemical structures shown in Figure 25, have been used.
MDMO-PPV was one of the earliest successful OPV donor materials, giving reliable power conversion efficiencies in the region of 1–2%,212 with the highest efficiency of 3% being reached when blended with PC71BM.213 Almost no spectral coverage in the red part of the visible spectrum and relatively low external quantum efficiencies are responsible for the overall power conversion efficiency of ∼2%.
P3HT was the prototypical OPV donor polymer for a significant number of years and continues to be important as a benchmark system to study and understand.
It should be noted that some studies that will be covered here do not use PC61BM as the acceptor but alternatives that can help to provide better contrast for measures of morphology.
In work by Roehling et al.,233 an endohedral fullerene was used as the acceptor.
Thus, overall the morphology generated with 3% DIO is highly advantageous for light harvesting in a photovoltaic cell, creating a blend with large surface areas between donor and acceptor for efficient exciton dissociation into charge pairs and quite small, interconnected, pure domains of both materials for charge separation and transport with minimal recombination losses.
To conclude this section, we can see that the morphology—the spatial organization of the donor and acceptor materials in the blend—is vitally important to successful harvesting of sunlight in photovoltaic devices.
If the donor and acceptor are too spatially disconnected into phase-separated domains, then exciton diffusion is unable to ensure that absorbed light can be converted into charge pairs.
Computationally and in terms of physics understanding this is obviously a “grand challenge”, all the more challenging because each blend combination of donor and acceptor forms a different morphology.
The combination of donor and acceptor materials in terms of synthetic chemistry capabilities is near infinite; thus, exploring these via trial-and-error device fabrication with all the possible solvents, additives, etc.
As the primary photoexcitations are tightly bound Frenkel excitons, a key step in light harvesting is splitting them into free charges which is achieved using a charge-accepting material (normally an electron acceptor, if as is most often the case the absorbing material is an electron donor).
A combination of exciton diffusion and FRET leads to exciton transport to the acceptor.
This is overcome by creating a bulk heterojunction throughout the full 100 nm thickness of the film, with separation between the electron donor and acceptor on the order of 20 nm.
The efficient operation of a bulk heterojunction requires a particular arrangement of the donors and acceptors (morphology) that facilitates excitons reaching the heterojunction and also enables charge separation and extraction.
The first is by making so-called ordered heterojunctions in which either donor or acceptor are patterned and the other material added to make the desired morphology.283−285 The length scales involved are demanding, and so far efficiencies using this approach have been limited.286,287 Nevertheless, progress in self-assembly and in nanoimprint lithography could help to achieve this.
This would simplify fabrication, avoid the time-consuming optimization of donor–acceptor morphology, and enable materials to be used that do not form appropriate BHJ morphologies.
We also demonstrate that rubbing can be an efficient and versatile strategy to improve the power conversion efficiency of non-fullerene solar cells by using the reference materials in the field, PBDB-T and ITIC.Rubbing the donor in bilayer organic solar cells promotes the formation of adequate concentration gradients in the active layers.
Organic solar cells (OSCs) have drawn tremendous attention as they present several advantages such as being semi-transparent, flexible, low cost, lightweight and processable on a large-scale at low temperatures.1–6 Poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) and phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) are considered as reference conjugated polymer electron donor and fullerene derivative electron acceptor employed in OSC active layers.7,8 Although most active layers are fabricated using co-deposition of the donor and acceptor materials into bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) thin films, sequential deposition of diffusive P3HT/PCBM bilayers (BLs) provides the possibility to independently tune the properties of each layer.9,10 BLs also offer the opportunity to form adequate donor/acceptor vertical concentration gradients in active layers for regular architecture OSCs, which can facilitate charge percolation to the electrodes and reduce leak currents.11 Unlike BHJ active layers that rely on highly unstable donor/acceptor intermixed networks, the phase separated active layer morphologies of BLs generally leads to longer device lifetimes.12,13 Furthermore, controlling the BHJ active layer nanomorphology during large-area coating may be difficult and thus the BL strategy is much more attractive for commercial production of OSCs.
However, several studies argue that upon thermal annealing, similar concentration gradients and nanomorphologies are produced in both BHJ and BL active layers.14–16 On the other hand, alternative processes that do not rely on the use of orthogonal solvents such as lamination or transfer printing have also been employed to fabricate well-defined BL OSCs.17–19 However, when employing these processes, generating the intermixed layer to achieve high photocurrents in OSCs generally becomes more challenging and often requires a nanostructuration step.17 In other words, diffusive BLs prepared via sequential solvent deposition demonstrate a great potential for highly efficient and stable OSC fabrication as long as adequate donor–acceptor vertical concentration profiles are formed.
We previously demonstrated that rubbing P3HT prior to PCBM deposition can enhance the performances of annealed (AND) BL OSCs through the formation of such adequate donor–acceptor vertical concentration profiles.20 Additionally, the application of pressure on the P3HT layer by uniaxial rubbing has been reported to be an effective strategy to change the molecular orientation of P3HT molecules from an edge-on to a face-on configuration.20,21
Furthermore, assessing whether the adequate concentration profiles are formed prior to annealing is a key factor to potentially extend the use of rubbing to other donor/acceptor systems.
If rubbing induces adequate donor/acceptor segregation in the BL OSC active layers, the application of rubbing could be extended to donor/acceptor systems based on low bandgap copolymers or non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) that do not require annealing at high temperatures above 100 °C.
Independently of the used donor/acceptor materials, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of rubbed OSCs are higher than those of unrubbed ones.
This confirms that rubbing is a simple yet efficient strategy to enhance the performances of BL OSCs independently of the crystalline nature of the electron donor and of the chemical nature of the electron acceptor.
This acceptor solution is spin-coated on top of the P3HT layers at 4000 rpm for 10 s to yield ca.
In regular device architectures, an electron donor-rich layer at the top interface increases the probability for charge recombination which is consistent with the low Voc values measured for the unrubbed ADP devices (Table 1).25,26 When the P3HT layer is rubbed prior to PCBM deposition, such P3HT-rich layer is not found near the Al electrode (Fig.
In both P3HT/PCBM BHJs and BLs, thermal annealing induces aggregation of the electron donor and electron acceptor molecules which modifies the vertical concentration profiles in the active layers.16,28,29 Our results on ADP and AND P3HT/PCBM BLs clearly indicate that upon thermal annealing PCBM molecules aggregate at the top interface of the active layers next to the Al electrode (Fig.
Such layers composed of intimately mixed electron donor and electron acceptor materials further enhance the charge generation efficiency within the active layer.27,31 These observations correlate well with the PV performances of AND devices (Table 1).
Finally, when both the donor and acceptor layers were deposited with solvent additives, a PCE value of 7.12% was achieved.
Furthermore, BL OSCs employing recently developed donors and non-fullerene acceptors that produce high PCEs above 16% have also been recently reported.46 Nevertheless, we focus on PBDB-T/ITIC as these materials correspond to the most studied donor/acceptor pair for non-fullerene OSCs.
Ternary active layers are prepared by adding small amounts of the semiconducting FeS2 NCs at different weight ratios of 0.0, 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 wt % with respect to the electron donor PTB7.
Nanostructures of FeS2 have been used as counter electrodes in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) [9,12–13], as electron acceptors or donors in inorganic or hybrid solar cells [10,14–17] and as second electron acceptors in organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs) [18].
The photovoltaic parameters were significantly improved with the use of a second donor [39–40] or acceptor (fullerene or nonfullerene) [41–42].
[44], used the nonfullerene acceptor molecule ITIC (2,2′-[[6,6,12,12-tetrakis(4-hexylphenyl)-6,12-dihydrodithieno[2,3-d:2′,3′-d′]-s-indaceno[1,2-b:5,6-b′]dithiophene-2,8-diyl]bis[methylidyne(3-oxo-1H-indene-2,1(3H)-diylidene)]]bis[propanedinitrile]) with PBDB-T (poly[[4,8-bis[5-(2-ethylhexyl)-2-thienyl]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl]-2,5-thiophenediyl[5,7-bis(2-ethylhexyl)-4,8-dioxo-4H,8H-benzo[1,2-c:4,5-c′]dithiophene-1,3-diyl]]) and PC71BM to form efficient electron-transport pathways, achieving an enhanced PCE of 10.2% as compared to 9.2 and 8.1% for the binary PBDB-T:ITIC and PBDB-T:PC71BM devices.
In this work, semispherical pyrite NCs are synthesized and added at different concentrations as second electron acceptors into the PTB7:PC71BM active layer of the OPVs that are fabricated with the direct configuration glass/ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PTB7:PC71BM:FeS2/PFN/FM, where PFN is poly[(9,9-bis(3'-(N,N-dimethylamino)propyl)-2,7-ﬂuorene)-alt-2,7-(9,9-dioctylﬂuorene)] (see Figure 1a and the Experimental section).
FeS2 as a second acceptor was successfully applied to improve the performance of the OPVs by the generation of additional charge carrier pathways and by the cascade-like shaping of the energy levels of the active layer materials (as shown in the diagram) [21].
Different structures and sizes of FeS2 NPs have been used for various purposes within solar cells, for example, for counter electrodes in DSSCs, for electron acceptors or electron donors in inorganic or hybrid solar cells, as hole transport layers in perovskite solar cells, and as a second electron acceptor in OPVs.
For instance, when slightly spherical iron pyrite NPs of 10–25 nm size were used as acceptors in P3HT-based solar cells, very poor PV parameters were attained [10,14–1561].
When implemented as second electron acceptors in P3HT:PCBM solar cells, the current density increased from 6.69 to 7.63 mA/cm2 using a concentration of only 0.3 wt % FeS2 with respect to the acceptor [18].
In this work, FeS2 NCs were added as a third component (second electron acceptor) in the PTB7:PC71BM active layer of an OPV to enhance the performance of the solar cell.
FeS2 NCs were added to the active layer at concentrations of 0, 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 wt % with respect to the electron donor and then mixed in an ultrasonic bath for 20 min.
Theoretical calculations have shown that a stoichiometry with slight excess of lead favors a donor-type defect at around 0.4 eV below the conduction band39.
Highlights Two series of terpolymers with improved photostability were realized by the introduction of appropriate ratio of antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene unit containing side chains.All-polymer solar cells and organic photodetectors (OPDs) with these terpolymers as both donors and acceptors have been prepared with simultaneously improved efficiency and stability.A feasible approach to develop terpolymers with antioxidant efficacy for improving the lifetime of organic solar cells and OPDs is proposed.
For non-fullerene small molecule acceptors (NFSMAs)-based OSCs, the self-aggregation of NFSMAs will damage the optimal morphology and suppress the charge separation and transport efficiency, leading to the gradual decrease in device performance [17].
All-polymer solar cells (all-PSCs) or photodetectors with polymers as both donor and acceptor have been proved an effective approach to improve the morphological stability [23, 24].
Then, appropriate molar ratios of the BTBHT moiety are incorporated to the backbone of the widely used polymer donor PTzBI-EHp and polymer acceptor N2200, affording two series of novel terpolymers, PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and N2200-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2), respectively.
The design of our new polymer donors and acceptors is derived from the PTzBI-EHp and N2200, respectively.
The solution of polymer donor: acceptor (2:1, w/w, dissolved by 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (Me-THF), with a total concentration of 9 mg mL−1) were spin-coated at 3000 rpm to afford an ~ 110 nm active layer for OSC devices and 1000 rpm to obtain ~ 230 nm active layer for OPD devices, respectively.
The molecular structures of the polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and acceptors N2200-BTBHTx are shown in Fig. 1a.
1a Chemical structures, b, c absorption spectra in solutions and as films and d, e energy-level alignment of polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and polymer acceptors N2200-BTBHTxTable 1Molecular weights, optical properties and frontier molecular orbital energy levels of polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2)aIn solutionsbIn filmsc\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{\text{g}}}^{{{\text{opt}} }}$$\end{document}Egopt = 1240/\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{onset}}}}$$\end{document}λonsetd\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{HOMO}}}} = - \left( {E_{{{\text{ox}}}} - E_{{\left( {\frac{{{\text{Fc}}}}{{{\text{Fc}}^{ + } }}} \right)}} + 4.8} \right)$$\end{document}EHOMO=-Eox-EFcFc++4.8 eVe\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{LUMO}}}} = E_{{{\text{HOMO}}}} + E_{{\text{g}}}^{{{\text{opt}}}}$$\end{document}ELUMO=EHOMO+Egopt
a Chemical structures, b, c absorption spectra in solutions and as films and d, e energy-level alignment of polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and polymer acceptors N2200-BTBHTx
Molecular weights, optical properties and frontier molecular orbital energy levels of polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2)
The optical bandgap (\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$${{E}_{\mathrm{g}}}^{\mathrm{opt}}$$\end{document}Egopt) of ~ 1.75 and ~ 1.49 eV could be, respectively, calculated for PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and N2200-BTBHTx from their absorption onsets.Table 2Molecular weights, optical properties and frontier molecular orbital energy levels of acceptor polymers N2200-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2)PolymerMn (kDa)PDI\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{max}}}}^{{\text{a}}}$$\end{document}λmaxa (nm)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{onset}}}}^{{\text{a}}}$$\end{document}λonseta (nm)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{max}}}}^{{\text{b}}}$$\end{document}λmaxb (nm)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{onset}}}}^{{\text{b}}}$$\end{document}λonsetb (nm)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{\text{g}}}^{{\text{opt c}}} \left( {{\text{eV}}} \right)$$\end{document}Egopt ceV\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{ox}}}}$$\end{document}Eox (V)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{re}}}}$$\end{document}Ere (V)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{HOMO}}}}^{{\text{d}}}$$\end{document}EHOMOd (eV)\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{LUMO}}}}^{{\text{e}}}$$\end{document}ELUMOe (eV)N2200982.5390/690800391/6928291.501.54− 0.62− 5.95− 3.79N2200-BTBHT0.051062.3390/699813391/6978301.491.48− 0.62− 5.89− 3.79N2200-BTBHT0.11142.4391/699813395/6968311.491.45− 0.61− 5.86− 3.80N2200-BTBHT0.21112.3391/696813390/6938351.481.43− 0.62− 5.84− 3.79aIn solutionsbIn filmsc\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{\text{g}}}^{{{\text{opt}} }}$$\end{document}Egopt = 1240/\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda_{{{\text{onset}}}}$$\end{document}λonsetd\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{HOMO}}}} = - \left( {E_{{{\text{ox}}}} - E_{{\left( {\frac{{{\text{Fc}}}}{{{\text{Fc}}^{ + } }}} \right)}} + 4.8} \right)$$\end{document}EHOMO=-Eox-EFcFc++4.8 eVe\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E_{{{\text{LUMO}}}} = - \left( {E_{{{\text{re}}}} - E_{{\left( {\frac{{{\text{Fc}}}}{{{\text{Fc}}^{ + } }}} \right)}} + 4.8} \right)$$\end{document}ELUMO=-Ere-EFcFc++4.8 eV
Molecular weights, optical properties and frontier molecular orbital energy levels of acceptor polymers N2200-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2)
The complementary absorption and matched energy levels of PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx and N2200-BTBHTx make them suitable polymer donor and acceptor, respectively, for OSCs and OPDs.
The DSC results of polymer donors PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx show no obvious melting or crystallization peaks in the temperature range of 25–300 °C, indicating their amorphous characteristics.
As for the stability of the dark current density based on polymer acceptors N2200-BTBHTx, to our surprise, the introduction of BTBHT moiety on N2200 has negligible influence on long-term Jd stability (Fig.
We attribute this decreasing in OPD performance to the high noise signals of OPD devices after aging based on polymer acceptors N2200-BTBHTx (Fig.
Two series of polymer donors and acceptors, PTzBI-EHp-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2) and N2200-BTBHTx (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2) were successfully synthesized.
A key factor is the ability to graft organic π‐systems directly to the surface of inorganic nanostructures, for instance by functional groups with strong electron donor/acceptor capabilities and thermodynamically favorable surface ligand exchange reactions.
[44]  This can be rationalized in terms of the well‐known dependence of Dexter energy transfer on large orbital overlap between the exciton donor and acceptor.
thiols on CdSe), L‐type ligands bonding in a donor‐acceptor fashion via a lone pair donated by the anchor group (e.g.
Efficient exciton dissociation and charge separation in NC‐organic hybrid materials requires an alignment of the positions of the frontier orbitals of the organic π‐system and the electronic states available at the NC surface: For the combination of an organic donor and a NC acceptor, the NC′s LUMO level must be below the LUMO level of the organic ligand (see Figure 2).
When regarding the inorganic and organic parts as a donor‐acceptor system and the anchor group as bridging ligand, parallels can be drawn with Taube's concept of inner and outer sphere electron transfer: [118]  To achieve a highly coupled through‐bond inner sphere transfer, a non‐innocent ligand is required.
Relationship between singlet fission, triplet harvesting and photon upconversion in COINs with an inorganic sensitizer and organic acceptor.
Thus, most organic π‐systems are poor triplet sensitizers but good triplet acceptors for long‐term storage.
In contrast and as detailed in section 2.1, QDs act as spin mixers at room temperature with fast thermalization of spins, which renders them good triplet sensitizers but poor acceptors with low spin stability.
For this reason, the introduction of a triplet transmitter between the surface of the NC and the triplet acceptor may become necessary (Figure 3, pathway A‐B‐C).
If triplet transfer from the NC to the transmitter is faster than the excitonic lifetime in the NC and consecutive transfer from the transmitter to the acceptor is thermodynamically favorable, the overall efficiency of triplet transfer increases drastically.
If the triplet transfer kinetics from the NC to the organic acceptor is unfavorable vs. ground state relaxation, exploring the opposite direction may also be rewarding (Figure 3, pathway C‐A).
Using organic π‐systems such as pentacene, tetracene or 2‐carboxy(TIPS)tetracene as the triplet sensitizer and PbS or CdSe NCs as the acceptor has been demonstrated to enable very efficient triplet harvesting.
The efficiency of triplet exciton harvesting can be viewed roughly as the product of the efficiency of triplet generation in the sensitizer and the efficiency of TET to the acceptor (optionally via a transmitter).
[128]  In contrast, shallow surface states of QDs can even be beneficial during TET by acting as a temporary storage place for triplets before they are transferred to the acceptor.
Due to their low transition dipole moment, TET between the sensitizer and the acceptor is dominated by the Dexter mechanism, where two individual charges are consecutively transferred and spin is exchanged.
Here, ϵ is the coupling energy between the sensitizer and the acceptor, λ is the Marcus’ reorganization energy and ΔV is the energy offset between the triplet state of the sensitizer vs. that of the acceptor.
where m* is the effective mass of the transferred charge and d is the distance between the sensitizer and the acceptor.
[133]  This, somewhat idealized, quantification of the efficiency of triplet exciton harvesting implies that future strategies for the design of coupled organic‐inorganic nanostructures for triplet harvesting should concentrate on accomplishing a large negative energy offset ΔV, and decreasing m* of the transferred charges, λ as well as d. [134]  The latter arguments are largely reflected in the crucial dependence of efficient Dexter transfer on ample orbital overlap between the sensitizer and acceptor.
[135]  Furthermore, long‐range order and orientation of sensitizers as well as acceptors is crucial for maintaining long triplet lifetimes and enabling triplet diffusion.
For the acceptor, a low‐lying triplet state, strong binding affinity to the sensitizer with a rigid binding motif, for example, by multidenticity, short binding distance as well as long‐range order and iso‐orientation are required.
[13]  Factors that influence the PU efficiency in COIN include the proximity of the sensitizer and acceptor, the binding mode of the molecules to the NC surface and the coupling across the organic/inorganic interface.
Since triplet transfer from the sensitizer to the acceptor is usually the rate limiting step during harvesting (section 4.2), tailoring the triplet transfer rate is of paramount importance for all device applications.
For triplet‐triplet annihilation and spin storage, the focus should be on fast and one‐way triplet transfer onto the acceptor, where the spins exhibit long lifetimes.
Therefore, a large negative energy offset between the triplet state of the sensitizer vs. that of the acceptor is important.
[25]  In contrast, optimizing triplet diffusion for photovoltaics requires forward and back transfer of triplets between the sensitizer and the acceptor to be equally efficient in order to achieve a large triplet diffusion length.
However, a spectral overlap of the acceptor emission and the sensitizer absorption could lead to downconversion from the sensitizer.
Requirements for CSU include the coupling of two excited sensitizers with the two‐photon absorption tensor/cross section of the acceptor system, leading to simultaneous and ultrafast excitation and subsequent PU from the activator.
In order to avoid a later recombination of hot carriers due to charge imbalance and to obtain an electric current, a corresponding electron donor solution or a hole conducting material is required.
When considering the use of electron donor solutions or hole transport layers for charge balancing, it was shown that the use of liquid cells leads to a higher degree of efficiency, but is impractical for photovoltaics due to a lack of stability.
Tailoring the transfer direction exploits the vast differences between inorganic and organic nanostructures in terms of their behavior as sensitizer or acceptor agents during the transfer.
The largest advantages of hybrid nanocomposites over single‐phase materials arise if two components with excellent acceptor/poor sensitizer properties and vice versa are combined to a highly asymmetric interface.
With one or two fluorinated phenyl as the end group(s), HOMO level of BT and DPP based small molecular donors were gradually decreased, inducing high open circuit voltage for fluorinated phenyl based OSCs.
These results demonstrated that the nano-scale aggregation size of small molecules in photovoltaic devices could be significantly enhanced by introducing a fluorine atom at the donor unit of small molecules, which will provide understanding about the relationship of chemical structure and nano-scale phase separation in OSCs.
Generally, bulk-heterojunction architecture was adopted with the electron-efficient conjugated polymer or small molecule as the donor and electron-deficient fullerene derivative such as (6,6)-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as the acceptor [5,6,7].
Driven by the developing of high efficiency small molecular donors and the investigation of nano-scale phase separation at donor/acceptor interfaces, power conversion efficiency (PCE) of nearly 10% for small molecule-based single-junction OSCs has been achieved [10,11].
Although fluorinated small molecules have been broadly studied, fluorine atoms were mostly introduced to the acceptor unit of donor materials [18,19,23,24,25], works focus on the investigation of small molecules with a fluorine atom at the donor unit were still rare.
Triphenylamine (TPA) based small molecules were common donor materials in organic semiconductor devices [8,26,27,28,29,30].
In this contribution, six small molecules (DFP-BT-DFP, DFP-BT-TPA, TPA-BT-TPA, DFP-DPP-DFP, DFP-DPP-TPA, and TPA-DPP-TPA) based on 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT) or diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) (Chart 1) as the core and TPA or fluorinated phenyl (DFP) groups as the flanks were synthesized and applied as the donors in OSCs [34,35,36].
BT or DPP groups were chosen as the acceptor units due to their uniquely planarity and remarkably electron-withdrawing capabilities, and various DFP groups were conjugated as the end groups to investigate the influence of fluorinated donor unit on the performance of small molecule based OSCs.
With one or two DFP as the end group(s), the HOMO level of BT-based small molecular donors TPA-BT-TPA, DFP-BT-TPA, and DFP-BT-DFP were gradually decreased; DPP-based small molecular donors also exhibited similar tendency, which would be beneficial to achieve high Voc in OSCs.
Due to the inferior solubility of DFP-BT-DFP and DFP-DPP-DFP, only TPA-BT-TPA, TPA-DPP-TPA, DFP-BT-TPA, and DFP-DPP-TPA were used as donor materials in OSCs.
Our results demonstrated that the nano-scale aggregation size of small molecules in photovoltaic devices could be significantly enhanced by introducing a fluorine atom at the donor unit of small molecules, which provided useful information in the further design of high efficiency small molecular donors for OSCs.
These small molecules exhibit a broad absorption in the range from 300 to 700 nm with two distinguishable absorption bands, which could be attributed to the π-π* transition and the internal charge transfer (ICT) interaction between the donor and the acceptor units [4,21,28].
Photovoltaic properties of these small molecules were investigated by a general device structure of indium tin oxides (ITO)/poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS)/donor:PC71BM/LiF/Al.
Since Voc is related to the offset between HOMO level of donor materials and LUMO level of PC71BM, the decrease of HOMO levels for DFP based small molecules would lead to higher Voc [3].
Hole-only devices were fabricated with a structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS/donor:PC71BM/Au and resulting hole mobility value (μ) was calculated from the dark J-V experiments.
In conclusion, six small molecules (DFP-BT-DFP, DFP-BT-TPA, TPA-BT-TPA, DFP-DPP-DFP, DFP-DPP-TPA, and TPA-DPP-TPA) based on 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT) or diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) as the core and TPA or fluorinated phenyl (DFP) as the end groups were designed and synthesized as the donors in OSCs.
To investigate the influence of fluorinated donor unit on the photovoltaic performance of devices, various DFP groups were conjugated.
With one or two DFP as the end group(s), HOMO level of TPA-BT-TPA, DFP-BT-TPA, and DFP-BT-DFP was gradually decreased; similar tendency could also be observed for DPP based small molecular donors, inducing high Voc for DFP based OSCs.
Our results demonstrated that the nano-scale aggregation size of small molecules in photovoltaic devices could be significantly enhanced by introducing a fluorine atom at the donor unit of small molecules.
In our previous work, we developed “the Same-Acceptor-Strategy” (SAS), by utilizing the same electron-accepting segment to construct both polymeric donor and small molecular acceptor.
We applied a simple design concept to realize organic solar cells with ultrahigh open-circuit voltage beyond 1.2 V and power conversion efficiency of 5.67%, by utilizing the same building blocks of indacenodithiophene and benzotriazole to design both p-type polymeric donor and n-type small molecular acceptors.
For a long time, fullerene derivatives have taken up the major part of the acceptor materials, benefited from their high electron affinity and electron mobility, as well as isotropic charge transport.
(Guldi, 2000; von Hauff et al., 2005; Anthony et al., 2010; Eftaiha et al., 2014) It's not until the recent 2 years that non-fullerene small molecular acceptors (NFSMAs) with strong sunlight harvesting capability and tunable energy levels have drawn considerable attention and hundreds of novel NFSMAs have been developed (Hwang et al., 2015; Lin et al., 2015, 2016a,b; Zhong et al., 2015; Guo et al., 2016; Holliday et al., 2016; Li et al., 2016b, 2017; Wu et al., 2016; Duan et al., 2017a,b; Fan et al., 2017; Liu et al., 2017; Sun et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2017; Xiao B. et al., 2017a,b; Xu S. J. et al., 2017; Xu X. et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2017; Zhang G. et al., 2017; Zhang Z. G et al., 2017) To date, the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of the fullerene-free OSCs have reached up to 13%.
reported that the OSCs containing poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as electron donor and the oligomer F4TBT4 with four repeated fluorene and di-2-thienyl benzothiadiazole units as electron acceptor can output a high VOC above 1.2 V and a PCE of 4.12% (Fu et al., 2016).
Our group synthesized a novel benzotriazole based acceptor, BTA2, which showed a high VOC of 1.22 V with an acceptable PCE of 4.5% with P3HT as donor (Xiao B. et al., 2017a).
Recently, a pyrene-fused perylene diimide acceptor synthesized by Li and Sun et al.
can achieve a high VOC of 1.21 V with a PCE of 5.10%, with the wide-bandgap polymer PBT1-EH as the donor (Zhan et al., 2017).
reported a combination of perylene monoimide (PMI)-based electron acceptor and a wide-bandgap polymer of PTZ1, which demonstrated a very high VOC of 1.3 V with a PCE of 6% (Zhang Y. et al., 2017).
(A) Plots of PCE against VOC as well as (B) EQEmax against Eloss in various OSCs with fullerene and non-fullerene acceptors with the VOC > 1.1 V. The according references were shown in Supporting Information.
Based on the molecular orbital theory, for donor-acceptor (D-A)-type conjugated materials, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level are mainly decided by the electron-donating and electron-withdrawing segments respectively.
Thus, it may realize the close molecular energy levels by utilizing the same building blocks to build both donor and acceptor materials.
In this paper, we further adopted this feasible strategy and chose the classic electron-donating unit of indacenodithiophene (IDT) and electron-accepting segment of benzotriazole (BTA) to construct the polymer donor and small molecular acceptors.
The donor-acceptor (D-A) type copolymer of PIDT-DTffBTA, as shown in Figure 2, containing IDT as the donor unit and difluoro-substituted BTA as the acceptor unit and thiophene as π-bridge, was designed as the polymer donor.
In addition, we utilized IDT and BTA to construct the conjugated backbone of the small molecular acceptors and fine-tuned the electron-withdrawing end-capped units to adjust their energy levels.
Here, as expected, these devices based on PIDT-DTffBTA: BTAx (x = 1–3) as acceptors exhibited the reduced energy loss below 0.60 eV and the according VOC in the range of 1.21–1.37 V were higher by nearly 0.3–0.5 V than that of [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) based device.
The LUMO offsets between PITD-DTffBTA and three acceptors (BTA2, BTA1 and BTA3) (ΔELUMOD-LUMOA) are calculated to be 0.08, 0.27, and 0.49 eV, respectively, and the according HOMO offsets (ΔEHOMOD-HOMOA) are 0.38, 0.45, 0.65 eV, respectively.
These results reveal that utilizing the same building blocks to construct both p-type polymeric donor and n-type small molecular acceptors has the potential to realize similar LUMO levels and give rise to high voltage.
The UV–vis absorption spectra of the donor and acceptors in solution and films are shown in Figure S3 and Figure 4A, respectively, and their absorption characteristics are summarized in Table S1.
ΔEHOMOD-HOMOA between the donor and the acceptors (BTA2, 1, 3) are 0.09, 0.12, 0.15 eV, respectively, and ΔELUMOD-LUMOA are respectively 0.05, 0.21, 0.35 eV.
As expected, the very small ΔELUMOD-LUMOA produce the ultar-high offsets between the HOMO level of the donor and the LUMO level of the acceptor, giving a chance to achieve the ultra-hight VOC (Armstrong et al., 2009).
The device using the PIDT-DTffBTA: BTA1 and PIDT-DTffBTA: BTA2 blend (1:1 in wt %) with thermal annealing show nearly no performance with a PCE of 0.12 and 0.07%, respectively, which is likely due to their very high-lying LUMO, resulting in insufficient charge transfer from polymer to acceptor.
The fast decay is related to the exciton dissociation due to charge transfer at the donor/acceptor interfaces.
Moreover, the exciton lifetimes of PIDT-DTffBTA:BTA3 based blend film is clearly quenched as compared to neat films, suggesting both efficient hole and electron transfer at the donor/acceptor interface.
The photoluminescence spectra of neat PIDT-DTffBTA, acceptor films and BHJ blend films with the D/A ratio of 1:1: (A) BTA2; (B) BTA1; (C) BTA3.
In this work, we applied a new design concept to construct the OSCs with ultrahigh VOC, utilizing the same building blocks (indacenodithiophene and benzotriazole) to design both p-type polymeric donor and n-type small molecular acceptors.
The resulted non-fullerene acceptors showed high-lying LUMO levels, close to that of the donor polymer.
With the increase of the ability of attracting electron of acceptor, PIDT-DTffBTA: BTA3 device possesses the large driving force for efficient electron and hole transfer and yields a dramatically increased JSC.
It is ascribed to a fine-tuning of the blend morphology in terms of the formation of interpenetrating donor and acceptor phases minimizing geminate and nongeminate recombination as indicated by charge extraction experiments.
An increase in the DIO content to 10% adversely affects the photovoltaic performance, most probably due to an inefficient free carrier formation and trapping in a less interconnected donor-acceptor network.
The high photovoltaic performance of state-of-the-art organic bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells has been mainly driven by the development of novel copolymer donor materials1.
While the microstructure of poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) blended with the fullerene acceptor [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) can be tuned by thermal annealing8, the morphology of active layers based on low-bandgap copolymers is usually optimized through the incorporation of small amounts of solvent additives, e.g., diiodooctane (DIO), in the blend solution from which the BHJ layers are cast910111213.
As a result, the morphology of donor (D) and acceptor (A) phases is significantly altered.
We find a morphology of the sample processed without DIO characterized by large acceptor agglomerates embedded within an intermixed D-A phase, resulting in a relatively poor PCE.
With the addition of DIO, our measurements show a decrease in the size of PC71BM domains, setting in for an amount of 0.6% DIO, as well as the demixing of the matrix phase starting at a fraction of 1% DIO and leading to the formation of pure donor regions.
With the addition of up to 3% DIO these domains get smaller, leading to a drastically increased interfacial area between the donor and the acceptor material and to a morphology that is ideal for free charge carrier generation and collection.
Since the films were excited at 3.1 eV, excitons were created in both donor and acceptor (Fig.
Due to the quenching at the D-A interfaces the donor emission can only be observed around zero delay without exhibiting the prominent dynamic redshift induced by exciton diffusion as it was observed for neat polymer films (data not shown)27.
Hence, in order to correctly describe the blend emission, the separately recorded initial donor PL spectrum has to be employed while the acceptor contribution can be modeled using the time-integrated emission spectrum.
The shape of the PL spectra can be qualitatively reproduced by a superposition of both individual spectra:with PLD(ΔT0) being the initial, zero delay donor PL (Fig.
the time-integrated acceptor PL spectrum (Fig.
This means that a significant amount of excitons is generated within acceptor domains with a size exceeding the typical exciton diffusion length de of about 5 to 10 nm as reported for organic semiconductors202829303132.
The absence of donor emission points towards the presence of an additional well intermixed D-A phase in the active layer bulk, showing a length scale of D and A domains on the order of or smaller than de.
The overall reduction stems from a substantially reduced emission from PC71BM but an increased contribution of donor PL (Supplementary Table S2).
The former is again consistent with the AFM data indicating an enhanced intermixing and the formation of an acceptor network.
For the 10% blend, a slight increase in the blend PL can be observed as compared to 3% DIO resulting from a gradual decrease in acceptor emission and an increase in donor emission (Supplementary Table S2).
As a consequence, the shape of the blend spectrum changes from being acceptor dominated to being donor dominated upon the systematic increase of DIO from 1% to 10% (Fig.
The change in the time-integrated PL spectra upon increasing the DIO content are related to both a reduced size of fullerene domains as well as the formation of additional pure donor regions within the intermixed phase.
The observation of an enhanced quenching of the acceptor emission is only possible, if excitons generated within fullerene domains reach the D-A interface, requiring a size of acceptor phases on the order of the aforementioned de.
By analogy, the strongly increasing polymer emission implies a length scale of the donor domains larger than the exciton diffusion length.
Adding DIO and increasing its content leads to a strongly enhanced relative contribution of τ1, which can be explained with a reduced average acceptor domain size allowing more singlet excitons to reach a heterointerface during their migration.
This implies a finer dispersion of donor and acceptor phases, which is expected to significantly enhance the density of initially photogenerated charge carriers due to the increased interfacial area between both phases.
Based on the enhanced donor PL of the 3% DIO blend (Supplementary Table S2), these observations can be explained by the formation of pure polymer regions within the intermixed D-A phase compensating the positive effect of shrinking acceptor domains.
The same reasoning applies for the 10% DIO sample showing both an even more donor dominated PL emission as well as larger agglomerates visible in AFM.
It can be speculated that a slightly reduced photogeneration for 3% DIO and an improved photogeneration for 10% DIO relative to 1% result from the interplay of shrinking acceptor domains and the formation of pure polymer regions.
The strong decrease in λf already for the small amount of 1% DIO can be seen as a further indication of shrinking acceptor domains, which continues up to a DIO content of 3%.
Our calculations show a possible approach to the rational design of donor materials when substituents are inserted systematically in a generic oligomer.
Organic photovoltaic devices are often composed of a mixture of donor polymers and acceptor organic molecules and their PCE is heavily influenced by the effectiveness of the solar absorber, which is primarily determined by the energy band structure of the molecules.
Conjugated polymers have been intensely explored as donor materials, because of their unique properties, which originate from their extended π-conjugated system delocalized over a large number of recurrent monomer units.17 When the electrons of a π-conjugated polymer are excited from the HOMO to the LUMO energy level (EL), they form an exciton (bound electron–hole pair).
Then, the exciton can diffuse to the interface with the acceptor organic molecule, where it splits into free charge carriers, which can be transported to the electrodes.
The photoactive polymer and the electron acceptor are blended in a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) configuration, so to maximize interfacial contact and minimize exciton travel distance.18 These two conditions in the BHJ configuration are best met when the donor and the acceptor moieties are intermixed on the nanometer scale, which means that the film morphology considerably affects the device performance.
While highly ordered donor and acceptor domains could ensure excellent charge transport, this morphology is very difficult to prepare because its formation relies on phase separation of the donor and acceptor materials during the formation of the absorber film.
When the exciton splits at the interface, the electron lands on the LUMO EL of the acceptor molecule, while the hole stays on the HOMO EL of the donor molecule.
Fullerene derivates are one of the most common acceptor molecules since they have excellent electron accepting/transporting behavior.18 The PCE increases in the presence of a high open circuit voltage (VOC), which is correlated with the energy gap between the HOMO of the donor polymer and the LUMO of the acceptor, because of the energy loss to overcome the binding energy of an electron–hole pair in the excitons.19 Since the LUMO of the widely used fullerene acceptor PC61BM is −4.2 eV,18 there is an upper bound for the LUMO of the donor polymer, and the PCE can only be maximized by a low HOMO energy of the donor.
In the rational design of high-performance conjugated polymers, an efficient way to modify the HOMO and LUMO levels of a π-conjugated polymer system involves the copolymerization of electron-releasing (donor) or electron-withdrawing (acceptor) units that will respectively increase the HOMO level or lower the LUMO one and overall reduce the band gap via internal charge transfer.17,20 Most of donor units in semiconducting polymers with high PCE are thiophene derivatives, which also show effective π–π stacking (i.e., long conjugation length) and high hole mobility.11 Some efforts toward further optimization of the chemical structure in this family of copolymers were somewhat successful, for example, with narrow-bandgap copolymers as PTB7-Th21 and PBDTT-SF-TT,22 in which the alkyl group on the thiophene substituents of PTB7-Th was replaced with an alkylthio group, leading to deeper energy levels.
That is especially true in the past few years because a variety of nonfullerene/small molecule acceptors have been designed and proved to be more efficient than fullerene derivatives.
For example, the substitution of sulfur with selenode in benzodithiophene (BDT) and thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (TT) units of polythiophene derivatives, which belong to the family of poly(3-alkylthiophene)s (P3ATs), lowers its band gap.24 Other polythiophene derivatives as donor polymers, including the widely studied regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), have been designed and synthesized by attaching electron-withdrawing carboxylate substituents to the side chain,25 or fluorine atoms to the backbone.26 In a recent study,27 the use of a chlorinated acceptor brought the PCE above 16%, which was also supported by density functional theory calculations where the long alkyl side chains were simplified to methyl or ethyl groups to construct the molecular models.
Bhatta et al.28,29 have investigated the inter-ring torsional potential conformations in P3HT and related polymers and its impact on the properties of donor materials for OP applications.30,31 While pure P3HT shows polymer backbones with trans coplanar thiophene rings, i.e., extended conjugation, in the heterogeneous blends of the BHJ (P3HT/PCBM film), the conjugated backbones of P3HT get twisted and different π-conjugated polymer segments will produce different conformations, i.e., torsional disorder.
A significant barrier to coplanarity, or torsional disorder, may also determine hole trapping within π-conjugated donor polymer segments, and higher HOMO orbitals, which can lower the charge conductivity of the active layer of organic solar cells.30,31 Of course, torsional or conformational disorder is naturally dependent on the film morphology and also correlated with the PCE and conductivity of the material.
In summary, optical properties and charge transport in the active layer, and ultimately PCE depend on Eg, VOC, JSC, and FF, which are then the prime targets for rational design calculations of organic solar photovoltaics, by first-principles methods.20 For any given OP system, these quantities depend not only on the identity of the donor and acceptor materials but also on the way the two materials are combined to form the bulk heterojunction (BHJ), which makes their characterization a huge multiscale computational problem.
In this paper, we focus on a more limited objective but still relevant to the goal of rational design, that is, to screen candidate donor polymers by insertion of electron-withdrawing and electron-donating substituents.
Even though DFT is a well-known and standard computational method for studying the electronic properties of materials, and molecular engineering of conjugated polymers with electron-withdrawing and electron-donating substituents to alter their electronic properties is a molecular design concept that has already been proposed in the literature,17,20 a systematic and tractable computational study, applying DFT to donor polymers substituted with electron-donating and electron-withdrawing groups, seems lacking in the literature.
Also new in this framework is our procedure for screening potential donor polymers for organic photovoltaics.
This procedure is based on the elimination, from the list of potential candidates for OP applications, of donor polymers that are not expected to adopt an all-trans coplanar ring structure, i.e., optimal π-conjugation, because noncoplanar structure will likely result in low electrical conductivity in organic solar cells.
Accordingly, we have selected the following three oligomer properties, which should allow many potential donor materials to be eliminated from consideration before they are synthesized in the lab and others to be sorted into more- and less-promising candidates:(a)The HOMO–LUMO energy gap, Eghl, which we take as a measure of the bandgap Eg in the bulk polymer material.
(b)The HOMO energy, which, together with Eghl and the corresponding properties of the acceptor material, determines the alignment of the donor and acceptor energy levels.
As we made clear before, the alignment of the donor and acceptor energy levels in turn impact VOC and JSC.
Specifically, the LUMO level of the acceptor needs to be lower than the LUMO of the donor to create a driving force for the electron transfer between the two materials, but it should not be too low because that will reduce VOC, and thus impact the PCE.
The minimization of the steric hindrance to the donor polymer conformation with coplanar rings would allow optimal π-conjugation.
Clearly, donor polymers unsuited to extended π-conjugation will not perform well in practical OP devices.
The HOMO energy, which, together with Eghl and the corresponding properties of the acceptor material, determines the alignment of the donor and acceptor energy levels.
As we made clear before, the alignment of the donor and acceptor energy levels in turn impact VOC and JSC.
Specifically, the LUMO level of the acceptor needs to be lower than the LUMO of the donor to create a driving force for the electron transfer between the two materials, but it should not be too low because that will reduce VOC, and thus impact the PCE.
The minimization of the steric hindrance to the donor polymer conformation with coplanar rings would allow optimal π-conjugation.
Clearly, donor polymers unsuited to extended π-conjugation will not perform well in practical OP devices.
The purpose here is to carry out first-principles calculations that will enable the screening of candidate donor polymers to be used as organic solar photovoltaic devices.
In fact, we need to go beyond the structure of the pure donor polymer to consider the nanoscale structure of the donor polymer in the bulk heterojunction of a practical device.
This allows extended conjugation and provides the high electrical conductivity needed in the donor material.
If the thiophene-based candidate donor materials are to be effective, they too will need the extended conjugation derived from the trans coplanar geometry.
Even if the absolute agreement with experimental bandgaps might be fortuitous, the ability to predict shifts in the value of Eghl among related systems is reasonable and meaningful to our study, where we look for systematic shifts in Eghl among the candidate donor materials that have the same extended-conjugation structure, but with a range of different electron-withdrawing and electron-donating substituents.
In order to estimate the barrier to coplanarity between adjacent rings in a candidate donor polymer, we calculate in the inter-ring torsional potential following the procedure of Bhatta et al.30 The underlying assumption of this approach is that any candidate donor polymer that would be potentially useful in a practical solar device will crystallize into a planar lamellar structure in which all adjacent rings are in a trans orientation to each other.
In practice, it was found that the torsional potential for polythiophene converges to the long-chain limit by n = 8.30 Accordingly, the calculations of the inter-ring torsional potential for candidate donor polymers were carried out on octamers.
The purpose of this calculation is to identify donor candidates that have a substantial barrier to the all-trans conformation, which are thus unlikely to crystallize into planar lamellar structures with extended conjugation, to eliminate them as credible candidates.
The knowledge of the energy levels of frontier orbitals is also important to understand the performance of organic photovoltaic devices.49 A low-lying highest occupied molecular orbital is desirable to enhance open circuit voltage (VOC).50 VOC is also affected by the morphology of the active layer because a large donor/acceptor interfacial area is associated with a high charge carrier recombination, and VOC losses.51 The open circuit voltage is defined as the maximum voltage a solar cell can provide to an external circuit,19 which directly contribute to the OSC PCE through the following equation:3where Jsc is the short circuit current density and FF is the fill factor.
The rational design concept presented here is to use these computed properties to screen candidate donor materials.
Second, the HOMO energy level, in conjunction with knowledge of the bandgap, determines the alignment of the energy levels between the donor and acceptor materials.
The single crystal packing forces are weakest at the edges of the crystal, that is, at the interface between the donor and acceptor in the bulk heterojunction.
The modest correlation between the bandgap and the HOMO energy that is evident in Figure 8, means that, within limits, one can select a donor material that has the desired combination of these two properties.
We have demonstrated a possible approach to the rational design of donor materials for organic solar cells, which is based on DFT calculations on single oligomers with electron-donating and electron-withdrawing substituents.
We have focused on three single-oligomer properties of P3MT: (i) the bandgap Eg that determines the light frequency that would be absorbed, (ii) the HOMO energy, which for given Eg controls the alignment of the HOMO and LUMO energies of the donor material relative to the acceptor, and (iii) steric hindrance to coplanarity, which controls the ability of the material to stack in a robust planar-lamellar fashion.
If we consider as a potential acceptor the standard fullerene derivative PCBM, we find that all exhibit an appropriate LUMO level since it is 0.3 eV higher than the LUMO of the acceptor; i.e., there will be enough energy for allowing the exciton to dissociate at the interface between the two materials.20 COCl, CONH2, and NO2 give an undesirably high steric hindrance.
In general, the followed procedure allowed us to identify the substituents with a band gap suitable for successful exciton dissociation, at the interface between our target donor polymer and the standard acceptor PCBM: −F, −NH2, and −OH give the best compromise between the band gap, HOMO, LUMO and steric hindrance.
Even if we limited our study to a donor (conjugated53) polymer and to a restricted number of properties to be investigated, a similar screening may be applied to acceptor materials, including small molecules, with a different or wider range of microscopic observables.
Compared with TiOx films and CsOx films, the TiOx/CsOx double-buffer film exhibited a favorable energy-level alignment among TiOx, CsOx, and the electron acceptor of PCBM or ICBA a better surface morphology; and an enhanced wetting and adhesion property with a contact angle of 21.0°, leading to a higher electron mobility of 5.52 × 10−3 cm2 V−1·s−1.
Generally, for efficient PSCs, a good CBL often satisfies several criteria: high transparency, low work function (WF), and favorable energy levels matched well with those of electron acceptors.
1) High-transparency benefits to large light absorption of active layers, thereby leading to more exciton dissociation at the interface of donor/acceptor and an increase in short current density (JSC).
2) As reported in previous literatures [25-27], open circle voltage (VOC) is determined mostly by the energy-level difference between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor [11,12] and the work function difference of the cathode/anode [25-27], as well as the weight ratio of the donor and acceptor [28].
Moreover, the film can serve as an effective hole- and exciton-blocking layer because of its conduction band of approximately 4.4 eV, which is much higher than the HOMO values of electron acceptor materials [35,36] (seen in Figure 1b).
Attributed to the CsOx is a much lower WF of approximately 2.20 eV as reported in previous literature [27]; it not only can modify the work function of the cathode and cathode buffer layer, but also facilitates electron transportation from electron acceptor materials to the CsOx surfaces.
To further investigate the general suitability of the TiOx/CsOx film in inverted PSCs, the other electron acceptor material of PCBM was used instead of ICBA for fabricating P3HT:PCBM inverted PSCs.
Generally, high performance of PSCs commonly accompanies with a high-electron mobility, which is mainly influenced by exciton dissociation, as well as charge-carrier recombination at the interfaces of donor/acceptor and the interfaces of CBL/acceptor.
Combining all the above and our mentioned results, it is believed that the CsOx (or Cs2CO3)-modified film can reduce the WF of the film and provide a better wetting property of the blend solvent on the TiOx/CsOx film surface, as well as a favorable energy-level alignment, which facilitate electron injection from electron acceptor to cathode, and thus leading to a remarkable improvement in VOC and JSC.
Conjugated polymers with an interchanging sequence of suitable acceptor and donor units in the main chains can show a decrease in its band-gap energy owing to the interactions of the intramolecular charge transfer.
A decade later, Heeger and colleagues reported the concept of a bulk hetero junction (BHJ) polymer solar cell using the blended system of conjugated polymer (donor) and fullerene (electron acceptor), in which the interfaces among the acceptor and donor offers pathways for charge generation, charge separation, and charge transportation [31,32].
Generally, in BHJ polymer solar cells, the active layer is composed of a low band gap conjugated polymer as the donor and fullerene/non-fullerene derivatives as an electron acceptor.
Noteworthy efforts have been made to narrow the polymer donor band gap so as to use the infrared photons, which caused the development of PCE from 5% to 12% in about a decade.
Since 2017, the investigation of narrow-band-gap non-fullerene acceptors assisted in ushering in a novel era in OPV research and increased the attainability of PCE to 17% in just 3 years.
There are many advantageous of a narrower band gap: (I) substantial infrared photons can be used, and thus the short circuit current density will increase considerably; (II) the energy offset of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy levels or highest occupied molecular orbital energy levels between the donor and acceptor can be decreased, which can decrease the open-circuit voltage loss by reducing the loss resulting from the donor/acceptor charge transfer state; (III) owing to the unique molecular orbitals of organic semiconductors, the red-shifted absorption will encourage large transmittance in the visible area, which is ideal for the rear subcells in transparent OPVs and tandem-junction OPVs [38].
In a two layer planar heterojunction, acceptor and donor layers are sandwiched between the electrodes.
The first two layer planar photovoltaic cell was developed by Tang, in which two different organic semiconductors, a donor (D) and an acceptor (A), were embedded between a transparent ITO and a semitransparent metal electrode [30].
Fullerenes have become standard acceptors for organic solar cells due to their various advantages.
Generally, four fundamental steps are involved in the process of charge generation from incident photons in polymer solar cells [195] (Figure 11): (a) upon the absorption of photons, electrons in the donor are promoted from the HOMO to the LUMO energy level and leave holes in the HOMO, which lead to the creation of excitons [196]; (b) the excitons subsequently diffuse to the D–A interface [169]; and (c) the electrons are transported from the LUMO energy level of the D to the LUMO energy level of the A.
The electrons and holes are on acceptor and donor phases, respectively, and they are strongly joined by coulomb attractions as geminate pairs [197].
The final step (d) is the dissociation of these geminate pairs into free holes and electrons, and then the holes and electrons migrate towards the anode and cathode electrodes through donor and acceptor domains, respectively, and they are then collected (d) [198].
1.9 eV) and good hole mobilities [142,205], P3ATs, especially rr-P3HT, have become one of the most representative organic photovoltaic polymer donors.
Two strategies can be used for reducing the Eg of the donor polymers.
When PC61BM is used as the acceptor (LUMO approximately −4.3 eV), the LUMO energy level of the polymer should be between −3.7 and −4.0 eV [221].
For the solution processability of the BHJ photovoltaic devices, the polymer should have an appropriate solubility in organic solvents, which is blended with the fullerene acceptor.
Finally, the polymer should form an optimized morphology with a fullerene acceptor in the active layer with a bicontinuous network on a nanoscale to enhance the Jsc and FF of the polymer solar cell devices [223].
Through these attempts, numerous design principles for the conjugated donor polymers employed in such solar cells have emerged, containing optimized the side-chain engineering, a conjugated backbone with careful selection of building blocks, and substituents.
Amongst all of the substituents, fluorine is perhaps the greatest prevalent one; enhanced device characteristics with fluorination have commonly been reported for an extensive range of conjugated polymers, especially donor–acceptor (D–A)-type polymers.
examined the influence of fluorination on the performance of solar cells as a function of the fluorination position (on the acceptor unit or on the donor unit), aiming to outline a perfect comprehension of the advantages of the substituent [227].
The most successful approach to reducing the Eg of the polymers is to design donor–acceptor (D–A) copolymers, which contain D and A monomers [235,236,237].
Consequently, the double bond character is increased between the donor and acceptor units, reduces the EBLA, and leads to narrowing of the band gap [239].
Yang and co-workers reported the PBDTT–DTBT copolymer containing benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene (BDT) as a donor unit and dithienylbenzothiadiazole (DTBT) as an acceptor unit (Table 1) [242].
reported a first D–A copolymer based on alternating BDT as a donor building block and ester substituted thieno[3,4-b]thiophene (TT) as an acceptor moiety, denoted as PTB1 (Table 1) [243].
The PCE increased to 5.6% when PC71BM was used as the acceptor [243].
Even though the electron donor polymers have suitable optical and electronic properties, the polymers must be blended with a fullerene-based electron acceptor such as PCBM to form the active layer in the BHJ structure.
Consequently, the morphology of thin films can be manipulated by selection of various additives and their concentrations to control the phase separation between donor and acceptor molecules [280].
First, the effect of lowering the ΔELUMO to 0.5 eV by raising the LUMO level of the acceptor (i.e., the band gap of the P3HT unchanged) was predicted to achieve an efficiency of 8.6%.
Several novel fullerene derivatives were developed and utilized as acceptors and tested in BHJ PSCs, such as lutetium-based endohedral fullerenes (Lu3N@C80), PC60BM-bisadduct (bisPC60BM), indene-C60bisadduct (IC60BA), and indene-C70bisadduct (IC70BA) (Figure 17) [286,287,288,289].
The PCE of BHJ PSCs, where the photoactive layer involves a blend of donor and acceptor, has dramatically increased in the last few years.
Introducing electron donating substituents, such as alkyl or alkoxy groups, can elevate the HOMO level of donor monomer.
Abstract π‐Conjugated donor (D)−acceptor (A) copolymers have been extensively studied as organic photovoltaic (OPV) donors yet remain largely unexplored in organic thermoelectrics (OTEs) despite their outstanding mechanical bendability, solution processability and flexible molecular design.
Ultimately, the peak power factor (PF) at room‐temperature is obtained as high as 105.5 µW m−1 K−2 with an outstanding S of 247 µV K−1 in a paradigm OPV donor PBDB‐T, which holds great potential in wearable electronics driven by a small temperature gradient.Three π‐conjugated D−A copolymers with various acceptor (A) units and the same donor (D) unit are investigated to reveal the relationship between the thermoelectric characteristics and electron‐withdrawing ability of A‐unit.
The first is so‐called D−π type that contains alternating donor (D) unit and π‐conjugated bridge, representative of homopolymer poly(3‐hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and poly(2,5‐bis(3‐tetradecylthiophen‐2‐yl)thieno[3,2‐b]thiophene) (PBTTT‐C14).
The introduction of acceptor (A) moiety into the backbone yields the second A−π type copolymers when A units are paired with π‐bridges, which is best exemplified by poly(diketopyrrolopyrrole‐terthiophene) (PDPP‐3T).
[  20  ] The third class of copolymers are comprised of alternate D and A units along the backbone, and such D−A type copolymers have been widely used as electron‐donor components in organic photovoltaics.
Herein, we used the same donor unit, benzodithiophene (BDT), to copolymerize with three different acceptor units and studied the relationship between the TE properties of the obtained D−A copolymers and the electron‐withdrawing ability of A‐units.
The semiconducting donor−acceptor (D−A) copolymers employed in this work are all based on the same donor moiety BDT and copolymerized with a series of acceptor units possessing various electron‐withdrawing abilities.
The relatively shallower LUMO energy level of PTB7‐Th than PBDP‐T and PBDB‐T may be due to the absence of π‐unit thiophenes in the backbone, which would strengthen the average electron‐donating capability of D‐units to some extent because thiophenes can also serve as donors yet possessing inferior electron‐donating ability.
Note D = donor unit: BDT; A = acceptor unit: DPP > TT > BDD in electron‐withdrawing capability.
Interestingly, at each dopant concentration, σ monotonically decreases as the electron‐withdrawing ability of acceptor moiety enhances, which is diametrically opposite to the trend in S. Owing to the inactivity of A units upon p‐doping, the positive charged polarons of the D–A copolymers are predominantly localized on the D units.
Consequently, the acceptor strength itself largely determines the available doping level and charge density.
In sum, we have employed the donor unit BDT to copolymerize with various acceptor units with enhanced electron‐withdrawing ability from BDD, TT to DPP.
Upon p‐doping, σ is improved with a decrease of electron‐withdrawing ability of acceptor units due to significantly enhanced charge transfer and increased carrier density.
Within the limit of an infinite stack of a cascade with various Eg, covering a wide range of the solar spectrum, the ultimate conversion efficiency at one sun intensity can increase to about 66%; (c) Third generation solar cells can be configured as donor-acceptor (D-A) hetero-junctions, with staggered electronic band alignment (named type-II configuration).
Sargent and co-authors [37] demonstrate the possibility of funneling energy toward an acceptor in QD heterojunction solar cells, involving a sequence of layers consisting of quantum dots selected as having different diameters and, therefore, different band gaps.
The quantum funnel conveys photoelectrons from their point of generation toward an intended electron acceptor.
The electronic interaction between QDs and electron acceptors is essential, and modifications of the photoanode surface will be required.
Furthermore, the distance between h-bond donor sites–nitrogen and the oxygen of each water–and the solid angle of each possible h-bonding donor-acceptor-donor arrangement are calculated.Figure 3Schematic representation of the MA-water interaction coordinate systems.
The pertinent h-bonding coordinates (donor-donor distance and donor-acceptor-donor solid angle) or H1–N–O are given in yellow.
The pertinent h-bonding coordinates (donor-donor distance and donor-acceptor-donor solid angle) or H1–N–O are given in yellow.
A complete statement concerning the nature of the intermolecular bonding requires an analysis of the solid angles between the candidate h-bonding donor-acceptor pairs; this solid angle is visually represented within the third row of Fig. 4.
It is also notable that the aforementioned (in the distance plots) exchange of h-bond donor sites within the ammonium in the NVE-BLYP simulation, see Fig. 4i.
SI6; subfigure (a) shows that a single oxygen (represented as a blue cloud projected on a unit sphere) maintains it’s association with a h-bond donor location on ammonium, different specific oxygens will be represented by different colors.
It is worth noting that the formation of a PBTTT wetting layer a the substrate interface would be beneficial for the operation of solar cells, since this avoids the segregation of the electron-acceptor component at the anode, where it would hamper hole extraction.
The slight losses in current and open-circuit voltage for the “PBTTT spin-cast” bilayer, which are likely due to the lower polymer-fullerene interfacial area, might in fact be counterbalanced by the better vertical segregation of the two components in such pseudo-bilayers devices, in which the electron-donor material preferentially segregates at the anode, as revealed by NR measurements.
Although the degree of intercalation in PBTTT: PCBM scales with the solar cell performance, in not-intercalated systems the electron-donor/electron-acceptor interfacial area available for excitons splitting and charges generation is reduced significantly.
Two common types of polymer donors, including P3HT and poly{[4,8-bis-(2-ethyl-hexyl-thiophene-5-yl)-benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b’]dithiophene-2,6-diyl]-alt-[2-(2′-ethyl-hexanoyl)-thieno[3,4-b]thiophen-4,6-diyl]} (PBDTTT-C-T), were selected to ensure that the obtained PCE was not unique to a specific type of high-performance semitransparent OPVs.
Rapid increase in the power conversion efficiency of organic solar cells (OSCs) has been achieved with the development of non-fullerene small-molecule acceptors.
The premise behind donor and acceptor materials and their role in exciton dissociation, and the boundary conditions that exciton diffusion lengths require for effective dissociation will also be explained.
Organic solar cells with a bulk heterojunction architecture consist of an active layer with phase-segregated domains of the electron donor and the acceptor components [21].
Such BHJ solar cells are commonly prepared by combining conjugated donor (D) polymers with electron-accepting (A) molecules.
This leads to an interpenetrating network with a large D-A contact area, where the absorbing site is within a few nanometers of the donor-acceptor interface.
When light is absorbed by the donor (or the acceptor) an ‘exciton’ (LE) is generated, which can be regarded as an electron-hole pair bound together by electrostatic interactions.
The first step for efficient energy transduction requires dissociation of the neutral excited state, localized on a donor or acceptor component, into a charge-transfer exciton that is localized on adjacent donor and acceptor components.
The events that occur in organic solar cells upon light illumination can be summarized as (Figure 2):Local exciton generation;Exciton diffusion to the donor/acceptor interface within its lifetime;Exciton dissociation at the D/A interface and charge transfer (CT) state formation;Separation of the CT state into free carriers;Charge carrier collection in the selective electrodes.
Exciton diffusion to the donor/acceptor interface within its lifetime;
Until recently only a small number of acceptors have proven capable of delivering high power conversion efficiencies.
However since, non-fullerene acceptors (NFA) have delivered advances in cell efficiencies [22].
One of the most efficient systems, discovered in 2019, relies on the combination of the donor polymer PM6 with the small molecule NFA Y6 [23].
Depending on the degree of miscibility and crystallinity between donor and acceptor, 2D or 3D microstructures (the pure D and or A phases, and the D/A amorphous intermixed phase) describe the morphology of the active layer [24].
When the donor–acceptor miscibility is too high (hyper-miscible) it can lead to performance deteriorations due to insufficient phase separation to allow stabilization of carriers (to avoid recombination).
There have been a lot of successful attempt in device efficiencies and numerous studies of photoinduced charge separation of fullerene and non-fullerene acceptor based photoactive layers processed from halogenated solvents [26,27,28,29,30].
The use of halogenated solvents allows, in principle, through good miscibility, the formation of percolation pathways to achieve the electrical ‘wiring’ of charge photogeneration at the donor/acceptor interface to external device electrodes.
Active layers processed from green solvents on the other hand, typically do not exhibit high miscibility between the donor and the acceptor that is present in aromatic halogenated solvents.
Efficient device performance relies upon the photogenerated exciton moving to a donor/acceptor interface so that exciton dissociation can occur [36,37].
Fullerene-based electron acceptors commonly suffer from poor absorption in the visible and NIR portion of the solar spectrum, tunability of its energy level, and solubility in polar media.
Nonfullerene acceptors are commonly designed on an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type structure [23].
Following the increasing interest in NFAs, considerable research effort has been also devoted to design and synthesis of polymer donors with an improved solubility in green solvent.
An NFA electron acceptor processable from green solvent was synthesized by Hong et al.
extended the side chains on the donor and acceptor repeating units from 2-ethylhexyl to 2-butyloctyl in order to design PBSF-D12 and PBSF-A12, respectively.
using a perylenediimide (PDI)-bithiophene-based polymer acceptor PPDIODT, and PBDT-TS1 as polymer donor.
Polymer donors with enhanced solubility in non-halogenated solvents were also prepared using siloxane-functionalized side-chains.
All-PSCs were fabricated using binary blends of PTzBI-Si and the polymer acceptor N2200, processed from THF, 2-MeTHf and CPME, delivering the a slightly higher PCE of 11.0% with the latest solvent [33].
The later enables pre-aggregation of the donor and the acceptor domains and achieves phase separation, forming a beneficial BHJ morphology [51].
However this technology is underdeveloped and only a few cases of donor and acceptor combinations that can use this method have been reported so far [52].
The large number of variable involved in the fabrication of a solar cell, such as the different chemical structure of the donor and acceptor, the presence of various solubilizing side groups, the use of different processing techniques, as well as the different nature of media used to cast the active layer, render it difficult to quickly assess the structure-property-performance relationships of the devices.
Correlations between two parameters suggest that the miscibility and molecular organization between the polymer and the acceptor are a key consideration for optimization of photocurrent generation and indicative of exciton diffusion limitations.
Charge separation in donor/acceptor blend systems can be most simply described as electron transfer from excitons to generate free charges.
Whilst the general trend in Figure 6a indicates that the photocurrent is limited by exciton quenching (due to too large domains), however upon a closer examination of the systems and categorization of the different class of acceptors, in Figure 6b we observe photocurrent to be independent of the exciton quenching values in the NFA based systems.
Thus in addition to the exciton dissociation, the degree of miscibility between the donor and the acceptor still plays a role in CT dissociation and recombination of the free carriers.
The possibility of Gaussian states that are either donor-like or acceptor-like and which are located anywhere in the bandgap can be predicted by wxAMPS.
The donor-like tail states coming out of the valence band can be modeled in wxAMPS by Eq.
1,1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g_{\text{d}} (E_{1} ) = G_{{{\text{d}}0}} { \exp }^{{\left( {{\raise0.7ex\hbox{${ - E_{1} }$} \!\mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {{ - E_{1} } {E_{\text{d}} }}}\right.\kern-0pt} \!\lower0.7ex\hbox{${E_{\text{d}} }$}}} \right)}}$$\end{document}gd(E1)=Gd0exp-E1/Edwhere gd is donor-like tail Gaussian state, E1 is measured positively from the valence band edge (Ev) upward to the point located at x, Ed is the characteristic energy that determines the slope of the tail, and Gd0 represents the density of states.
Similarly, the acceptor-like tail states coming out of the conduction band can be modeled by Eq.
2,2\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$g_{\text{a}} (E_{2} ) = G_{{{\text{a}}0}} { \exp }^{{\left( {{\raise0.7ex\hbox{${ - E_{2} }$} \!\mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {{ - E_{2} } {E_{\text{a}} }}}\right.\kern-0pt} \!\lower0.7ex\hbox{${E_{\text{a}} }$}}} \right)}} ,$$\end{document}ga(E2)=Ga0exp-E2/Ea,where ga is acceptor-like tail Gaussian state, E2 is measured negatively from the conduction band edge (Ec) downward to the same point x, Ea is the characteristic energy that determines the slope of the tail, and Ga0 represents the density of states.Fig.
The non-covalent interaction of F atom not only exists in copolymers, but also can be observed in non-fullerene small molecule acceptors (Zhao et al., 2017; Liu et al., 2018).
Because fluorine is the most electronegative element in the periodic table, the F atom is a powerful functional group for donor/acceptor materials.
It has a quite strong electron-withdrawing nature, so the introduction of fluorine into the polymer/acceptor backbone can lower the HOMO and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy level, resulting in the increase of Voc.
Recently, terpolymers which comprise three various components in the backbone have emerged as a new design strategy for donor polymers (Qin et al., 2014; Duan et al., 2016; Wang X. et al., 2017; Wang Y. et al., 2017; Huo et al., 2018).
Based on the above thinking, DPP based regioregular terpolymer with difluorobenzene and difluorocarbazole units was successfully fabricated and applied as donor material for OSCs in our previous work with a high Voc of 0.86 V and PCE over 8% (Liu et al., 2016).
Despite such advantages of F substitutions to the properties of donor polymers, some reports demonstrated that excessive F atoms would reduce the photovoltaic performance due to the significantly aggravated aggregation of polymer chains and enhanced trap-assisted charge recombinations (Jo et al., 2015; Kawashima et al., 2016; Lee et al., 2016).
It should be noted that such results were all obtained based on donor-acceptor (D-A) alternating binary copolymers.
Various conditions were employed to optimize the photovoltaic performance, such as different ratios of donor/acceptor, solvent additives and spin-coating rates.
The optimized donor to acceptor weight ratio is 1:2 (w/w), and the optimized thickness is 100 nm by a spin-coating rate about 1,100 r/min with dilute polymer concentration of 3 mg/mL.
We show that selecting proper donor units with F atom to fabricate copolymers is an effective way to realizing high-efficiency polymer solar cells based on DPP units by enhancing in both Voc and Jsc.
π-Conjugated oligomers functionalized with the popular dicyanorhodanine (RCN) electron acceptor are shown to be susceptible to photo-induced Z/E isomerization.
Overall, this work showcases an approach to characterize the stereochemistry and photochemical behavior of dicyanorhodanine-functionalized thiophenes, widely used components of functional molecules and materials.Thiophenes functionalized with the popular dicyanorhodanine (RCN) electron acceptor are susceptible to well-behaved Z/E photoisomerization.
1), referred to colloquially as dicyanorhodanine (RCN), was introduced as an electron acceptor unit for organic optoelectronic materials in 2011.1 Since then, the RCN acceptor has become a fixture within the organic photovoltaic (OPV) community as it can lead to broadened and red-shifted absorption extending into the near infrared,2,3 enhanced crystallinity,4 and high electron affinities5 when appended to a π-conjugated molecule.
Indeed, there have been 100+ publications relying on the dicyanorhodanine acceptor since 2013, speaking to the important role that this structure has played in the development of OPV materials.
Early on, RCN was introduced to small molecule dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) materials,6–9 including relatively high performers such as indoline-based D–A–π–A systems which have demonstrated power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) as high as 8.53% when using 2,1,3-benzothiadiazole as an internal acceptor.10 More recently, DSSC small molecules relying on a triarylamine donor and RCN acceptor were developed11–13 and have generated PCEs up to 8.98% for an optimized device using a Zn2+ porphyrin co-sensitizer.14 As interest in bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) devices increased, a plethora of small molecule (SM) donor materials relying on RCN appeared.5,15–20 A series of solution-processable SM donors were introduced,2,21–23 each bearing terminal RCN acceptor groups along an oligothiophene backbone of varying repeat units.
These systems have been extensively investigated due to the success of the seven-thiophene24–29 and five-thiophene30–37 variants of this system which have achieved PCEs as high as 9.30% for a binary BHJ device blended with PC71BM and 10.30% for a ternary SM solar cell, respectively.38,39 More recently, the evolving research area focusing on SM non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) has adopted RCN, and numerous examples containing this structure have been reported.40–58 RCN-based NFAs have achieved PCEs beyond the 10% mark,59–63 with some of the highest performers reaching values of 10.78%,64 12.16%,65 and 12.27%.66 The RCN acceptor has also been incorporated into π-conjugated polymer donors, leading to OPV devices with PCEs of 5.30%,67 8.13%,68 and 9.12%.69 Outside of organic photovoltaics, the RCN structure has constituted small molecules used as organic photodetectors,70 organic field-effect transistors,71 and biologically active drug molecules.72–74
Chemical structure of the dicyanorhodanine (RCN) acceptor unit.
Our recent work (vide infra) employing the RCN acceptor has encouraged us to consider the olefin stereochemistry which conjugates RCN to π-conjugated thiophenes more carefully.
The acceptor group is introduced onto the terminus of thiophene oligomers via a Knoevenagel condensation reaction between 2-(1,1-dicyanomethylene)rhodanine and the corresponding π-conjugated carboxaldehyde, typically in the last step of the synthetic sequence.2,11,13,40 The condensation results in the formation of an olefinic C   <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="13.200000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 13.200000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.017500,-0.017500)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 440 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z M0 280 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z"/></g></svg>  C double bond which has the potential for both Z and E stereochemistry (Fig.
reporting that a DSSC dye containing a double rhodanine acceptor similar to RCN was prone to photoisomerization,88 and other non-radiative deactivation processes,89 which may negatively affect device efficiency.
The same authors reported the photoisomerization of the cyanoacrylic acid anchoring group, another popular acceptor unit for DSSC applications.90 To the best of our knowledge, the photoisomerization of dicyanorhodanine (RCN) functionalized π-conjugated oligomers has yet to be studied.
The absorption maxima (λmax) for 1-Z and 2-Z lie at 412 nm and 477 nm, respectively, and are attributed to HOMO–LUMO transitions which have previously been classified as π–π* intramolecular charge transfer (ITC) bands for π-conjugated aryl- and tetrathiafulvalene-based structures functionalized with RCN,1 and materials functionalized with similar acceptors such as cyanoacrylic acid, rhodanine, and double rhodanine units.93 The secondary excitations at 294 nm (1-Z) and 330 nm (2-Z) are HOMO−1 to LUMO transitions also of π–π* character, an assignment made by visual inspection of the frontier molecular orbitals (Fig.
The photoisomerization of two commonly used acceptor units for DSSC applications have previously been reported in the literature.88–90 We now report the photoisomerization of the popular dicyanorhodanine (RCN) acceptor.
While the photoswitching capabilities of this system do not currently rival azobenzenes or stilbenes,100,101 RCN can only now be considered for the engineering of organic soft materials whose properties or functions can be tuned via photochromic switching by external stimuli.98 The photoisomerization is quite relevant to the organic photovoltaic community,91 given the use of RCN in donor materials and non-fullerene acceptor (NFA) materials for bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) solar cell devices.
It is possible that other acceptor units popular within the organic materials literature may be prone to photoisomerization as well, and work in this direction is also ongoing in our laboratory.
The usual Pd(PPh3)4 resulted in being ineffective as the catalyst of the cross-coupling between reagents 34 and 35, while substitution of the strong donor PPh3 ligand with the low donor AsPh3 ligand of palladium resulted in a very effective catalytic system.
In this study, the effect of changing the palladium ligands on the rates of a typical Stille cross-coupling (between iodobenzene and vinyltributyltin) was investigated, observing large rate enhancements associated with ligands of low donicity, like AsPh3 and tri(2-furyl)phosphine, compared to strong donors ligands, like the traditional PPh3.
At the same time, the peak at 360 nm originates from PTFPV segments and is red-shifted with respect to the corresponding transition in pristine PTFPV, due to the presence of donor PDOPV segments.
More recently, we focused our attention on the potentiality of fluorinated arylenevinylene polymers suitable for photovoltaic applications, as donor materials in bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells.
Some interesting papers [70,71,72,73] refer to favorable effects of the fluorine atoms on the performance of polymers used as donor materials in blend with phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) derivatives in BHJ solar cells.
The role of the fluorine is mainly attributed to its capability of lowering both the HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the donor, which causes an increase in the open circuit voltage, VOC.
In fact, several studies have reported on the effect of double bonds in donor polymers for BHJ solar cells, especially as a bridge between donor and acceptor units in donor-acceptor type low band gap polymers [89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,97,98].
PDTBTFV and PDTBTV were used as donor materials in blend with PCBM in BHJ solar cells.
Specifically, we show how funnel-shaped donor- and acceptor-rich domains in the phase-separated morphology that are characteristic of organic bulk heterojunction solar cells can promote directed transport of positive and negative charge carriers toward the anode and cathode, respectively.
The past decade has witnessed a continuous rise in power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of organic solar cells, now reaching 19%.1,2 The bulk heterojunction (BHJ) approach, in which donor and acceptor compounds are intimately mixed in a single active layer, has enabled achieving this milestone by providing a means to split photogenerated excitons with near unity (internal) quantum efficiency into charge transfer (CT) states and subsequently into free charges.3 In many organic photovoltaic (OPV) systems, the required driving force, given by the difference of the (optical) bandgap Egopt and the energy of the CT state ECT, leads to significant energy losses that show up as open circuit voltages (VOC) that are lower than those of inorganic solar cells of the same bandgap.4 It was predicted on the basis of numerical simulations5 and subsequently shown experimentally that careful tuning of energy levels allows free charge generation at minimal energy loss.6
While the bulk heterojunction architecture provides a large interfacial area between the donor and acceptor moieties to facilitate charge separation, it does not generally provide a preferential direction of motion for the thermalizing charge carriers.
Consequently, thermalization is mostly associated with undirected, diffusive motion.21 In a recent paper, it was shown that the introduction of a vertical (in the direction of current flow) gradient in the donor:acceptor ratio leads to a rectification of this diffusive motion, leading to improved charge separation and extraction and suppressed surface recombination in full devices.22 In absence of a built-in voltage, the broken inversion symmetry due to the composition gradient still leads to a finite open circuit voltage.
even observed increasing VOC for increasing gradient strength, but, not considering the slow thermalization processes, they attributed the effect to the additional chemical potential energy gradient that adds to the built-in potential of the device.25 The topic of composition gradients gained additional urgency with the very recent advances in OPV performance made through sequential deposition of the donor and acceptor compounds.32−36 Apart from being robust, this processing technique is prone to lead to strong composition gradients, the effect of which so far lacks a formal interpretational framework.
The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels of the donor (acceptor) were taken 5.3 eV/3.3 eV (5.7 eV/3.7 eV), giving the system an effective band gap of 1.6 eV.
In absence of phase separation, the gradient strength is denoted as  where  is the donor concentration at the anode.
Hence, a 90:10 gradient runs from 90% donor material at the anode to 10% at the cathode, and vice versa for the acceptor material.
Here, 10–7 denotes a 10 × 10 × 50 unit cell of donor material with 7 × 7 × 50 inclusions of acceptor material.
Here, 10–3 refers to a morphology where the top surface of a 10 × 10 unit cell of donor material has a 3 × 3 inclusion of acceptor, turning to a 10 × 10 unit cell of acceptor material with a 3 × 3 inclusion of donor material at the bottom surface.
The increasing site density of donor (red) and acceptor (blue) phases leads to a directed stochastic motion of holes (electrons) to the right (left).
In conclusion, we have shown by numerical calculations that the highly diffusive motion of thermalizing photogenerated charge carriers, which is typical for organic solar cells, can be rectified by funnel-shaped morphologies in the phase-separated donor–acceptor blend.
Specifically, we speculate that the spontaneous phase separation occurring in stratified D:A films, as, e.g., produced by sequential deposition of donor and acceptor compounds, will lead to funnel-like networks that resemble those considered here.33,44,45 However, for these bottom-up funnels to be maximally effective, both the degree of stratification and the length scale of lateral phase separation will have to be optimized.
Schultz et al., demonstrated the tuning of GaN work function from 4.2 to 6.0 eV by using organic acceptors35.
So far only a few organic acceptors are reported40 for preparation of organic/GaN hybrid nanostructured materials for tuning of optical/electrical properties and require more research in this area.
There is also appearance of new absorption bands at 543 and 578 nm in hybrid for charge transfer (CT) states as also seen with organic donor and PDI nanostructured co-assembly54,55.
Above CNL level, all the surface states are considered as acceptor-like states and below CNL all the states are considered as donor-like states.
PDI anion radical shows the transient absorption near 700 nm in mixture with electron donor polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT)52.
For a typical organic/metal/metal oxides electrode system, TMO serves as a strong electron acceptor, when electrons are drawn from the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of HTL to the CBM of TMO, and thus electron-hole pairs are generated.
FRET involves dipole–dipole coupling of ERD and acceptor through an electric field, which has been applied in DSCs and polymer solar cells to enhance their photoresponse and obtained excellent results17.
Excitation of ERD could be non-radiative transfer to the acceptor dye through the electric field as the emission spectrum of the ERDs overlaps with the absorption spectrum of acceptors212223.
FRET efficiency between ERDs and acceptors mostly depended on the Förster radius (R0).
In such a configuration, many ERD molecules cannot transfer energy effectively as they were far away from the acceptor dyes attached on the TiO2 surface.
The distance between ERDs and acceptors is short and the contact of ERD and solvent in electrolyte is minimized or avoided as well.
N3 dye was used as the acceptors.
The Förster radius (R0) is the distance that FRET is 50% probable between ERD and acceptors.
Where n is the index of refraction of the host medium, κ2 is the orientation factor (2/3 for random orientation, which could be used in DSCs system), NA is Avogadro's number, QD is photoluminescence efficiency of ERDs, and FD is the emission profile of the donor.
It is given by equation32: where r is the separation distance between ERDs and acceptors, ko is the Boltzmann constant and Ro is the Förster radius calculated from Eq 1.
Thus, the dip-coating method, which concentrates ERD and acceptors on the surface of TiO2 photoanode, has been used to obtain a better FRET efficiency in DSCs.
Figure 3 shows the schematic drawing of FRET in DSCs using DCJTB as ERD and N3 as acceptors.
As DCJTB molecules are concentrated on the surface of sensitized TiO2, shortening the distance between ERD and acceptors.
In the early studies reported in literature3334, the increased power conversion efficiency was mainly due to the increased Jsc caused by FRET between ERD and acceptors, while Voc remained unchanged or even decreased.
Dip-coating method used in interface modification avoided electron quenching by concentrate ERD and acceptors on the surface of sensitized TiO2.
When DCJTB assembled on the surface of TiO2, the distance between ERD and acceptors was reduced and thus, a higher FRET efficiency was achieved.
In the last decade, bulk heterojunction (BHJ) OPVs based on low band gap copolymers as electron donor and fullerene derivatives as the electron acceptor have developed rapidly, attaining power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) >10% for single layer devices78.
Such excitons must be rapidly dissociated at a donor-acceptor interface to avoid recombination, with the charges generated being extracted through a bicontinuous and interpenetrating network of phase-separated fullerene and polymer-rich domains.
Among a variety of electron donor materials, poly[(5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazol-4,7-diyl)-alt-(3,3′″-di(2-octyldodecyl)2,2′;5′,2″;5″,2′″-quaterthiophen-5,5′″-diyl)] (PffBT4T-2OD) has recently attracted attention due to its potential to fabricate high performance OPV devices830.
Indeed, it has been shown that this aggregation behavior is insensitive to the presence of the fullerene acceptor and can be efficiently used to control the morphology of the corresponding BHJs.
Thus, we have employed an aqueous solution of methylviologen chloride as the electron acceptor.
Photo-induced charge separation in organic semiconductors usually occurs at interfaces between electron donors and acceptors.
However, radiative recombination345678, along with other quenching losses, contribute to a significant reduction in charge harvesting efficiency; a problem that has driven an enormous international research effort aimed at controlling donor and acceptor domain sizes to minimize such losses.
This report focuses on the synthesis of novel 2,3,4,5-tetrathienylthiophene-co-poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (TTT-co-P3HT) as a donor material for organic solar cells (OSCs).
To date, the OSCs with better performance are constructed on bulk heterojunction active layer using conjugated polymers as the electron donor materials and fullerenes as the electron acceptor materials [6,9,10].
The donor and acceptor material interface delivers a pathway for photo-generated charges, transportation and separation.
Currently, the research in the OSCs field focuses on designing low energy band gap donor polymers with engineered electrochemical energy levels for better charge separation which lead to an increase in the performance of OSCs [11,12,13].
Organic donor materials play a crucial part on the overall performance of OSCs, and can be easily modified chemically.
Polythiophenes based polymers are mostly used as the electron donor materials for OSCs because of their properties such as thermally stable, environmentally friendly, easy to process and less expensive [14,15].
[16] reported OSCs with maximum PCE of 2.03% using poly[2,6-(4,4-bis-(2-ethylhexyl)-4H-cyclopenta[2,1-b;3,4-b’]dithiophene)-alt-4,7(2,1,3-benzothiadiazole)] (PCPDTBT) as organic donor material.
The studies above showed that modification of organic donor materials has an effect on the PCE of OSCs.
Poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl (P3HT) is the most widely studied polythiophene-based material as organic donor for solar cells [18,19,20,21,22] Studies revealed that P3HT properties such as optoelectronic properties and crystallinity and its OSCs performance can be altered by modification of its end groups [18,19,20].
[21] reported P3HT functionalized with porphyrin as an end group for use as OSC donor material.
In this work, we synthesized a novel TTT-co-P3HT donor material using oxidation polymerization.
Active layer was prepared by blending donor material polymer and PC71BM (mixture of isomers, 99%, Merck (Pty) Ltd.) with a total of 25 mg/mL in chlorobenzene (99.9%, Merck (Pty) Ltd.) as a solvent at 60 °C for overnight.
The blend ratio of donor: acceptor used is 1:0.8.
CV was used to investigate electrochemical response of TTT-co-P3HT and P3HT donor polymers and the voltammograms are shown in Figure 3B.
These energy levels offsets of the donor and acceptor materials are important factors in understanding the electron/hole pair separation dynamics.
HOMO offset becomes of importance when the acceptor material absorbs light significantly [28,29].
The LUMO offsets between donor and acceptor are determined from Figure 3C to be 0.96 eV for TTT-co-P3HT:PC71BM and 0.97 eV for P3HT:PC71BM.
[32] reported donor and acceptor materials with LUMO offset less than threshold.
Photoluminescence spectroscopy has been widely used to study electron/hole pair separation at the interface of donor and acceptor materials using the quenching effect [33,34,35,36].
To determine the quenching degree of TTT-co-P3HT:PC71BM and TTT-co-P3HT:PC71BM, the following Equation (1):(1)q(%)=Idonor−Idonor:acceptorIdonor×100 was used to calculate photoluminescence quenching parameter q, where Idonor is the intensity of donor material and Idonor:acceptor is the intensity of donor:acceptor blend [33].
From Equation (1), for an outstanding degree of electron/hole pair separation and charge transfer without any recombination taking place, Idonor:acceptor must be equal to zero resulting to q equal to 100%.
Additionally, penetrative oxygen in the active layer lead to different photo-oxidation reactions of an acceptor and donor materials [40,41].
Changes in the structures of an acceptor and donor materials will change their charge carrier mobilities, energy levels and photon absorption properties.
In summary, we have successfully synthesized TTT-co-P3HT using chemical oxidation polymerization for use as the donor material in OSCs.
Cellulose biomass (i.e., rice husk) was utilized as a sacrificial electron donor for hydrogen evolution accompanied by humins formation in the presence of a Pt/TiO2 photocatalyst.
The focus is set on net-oxidative and redox-neutral photocatalytic reactions, as they appeal most to the principles of green chemistry, meaning no costly sacrificial electron donors or acceptors are necessary for the process to occur.
The concentration of the electron donor (iodide) in the electrolyte is also known to contribute to efficiency and needs to be properly adjusted.
In addition, conjugated polymers (Scheme 1) demonstrating a series of interchanging satisfactory acceptor and donor units in the polymer main segments, to some extent, can exhibit low band-gap energy values, because of the intramolecular charge transfer interactions.
These include, (1) wide use in production of organic solar cells as hole transporting layers (HTLs) [29] and donor materials [30], (2) use in electrochemical dye-sensitized solar cells as host electrolytes [31], (3) emitters in heterojunction silicon solar cells in place of highly doped p-type hydrogenated amorphous silicon [32] and (4) p-type HTLs in perovskite solar cells [33].
As a result of doping, the introduction of foreign materials, either acceptor or donor species, into the conjugated polymeric matrix results in the incorporation of defects.
In this case, the oxidizing agent accept electrons from the polymer, thereby being referred to as the acceptor, and leaves the conjugated polymer with a positive charge on the surface, as outlined and illustrated in Scheme 4.
In this case, the reducing agent donates electrons to the polymer, thereby being referred to as the donor, and leaves the conjugated polymer with a negative charge on the surface, as outlined and illustrated in Scheme 4.
[59] prepared a novel 2,3,4,5-tetrathienylthiophene-co-poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (TTT-co-P3HT) donor polymer through chemical oxidative polymerization using FeCl3 as the oxidant in Chloroform.
In this study, the repeating units of the monomer 3-hexylthiophene (3HT) grew out on the surface of 2,3,4,5-tetrathienylthiophene through α–α coupling of the aromatic thiophene rings between TTT and 3HT, which resulted in the formation of the novel polymer TTT-co-P3HT that found application in OSCs as a donor.
The AA/BB approach is of the utmost significance in altering the properties exhibited by pristine conjugated polymers through preparation of alternating donor-acceptor copolymers that are extensively applied in optoelectronic devices.
[87] prepared four alternating donor-acceptor copolymers (Scheme 9), PFDTBTDI-DMO, PDBSDTBTDI-8, PFDTBTDI-8, and PDBSDTBTDI-DMO for photovoltaic application through Suzuki polymerization by reacting bis-borate esters with dibromides, performed using Pd(OAc)2/P(o-tol)2 catalyst and NaHCO3 in anhydrous THF.
[108] prepared a benzodithiophene-based donor-acceptor polymer (PTB7) via Stille polymerization using both thermal and microwave as a comparative study for solar cell application.
Much of the success is due to the development of the bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells which provides an enhanced charge separation path-length due to the increased donor-acceptor (D-A) interface, where the charges are separated efficiently [167].
As opposed to the organic-silicon hybrid heterojunction solar cells discussed in Section 4.2, where silicon acts as the main light absorber, OSCs utilize a blend mixture of conjugated donor and acceptor polymers (D-A) as the active layer responsible for absorbing light to generate excitons.
Recently, due to the novel design of new organic donor and acceptor materials, innovative-engineered architectures, and device optimizations, single-junction OSCs have significantly improved their performances with PCEs exceeding 17% [168,169,170,171] and reaching 18.22%, to date [172].
As much as most of the research is centered around the design of novel donor and acceptor materials, the tremendous improvements of late are also owing to the utilities of suitable HTLs which form a significant constituent of OSCs and play an important role is enhancing both the PCE and stability of OSCs.
[179] fabricated the device with the structure ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PM6:Y6/PDINO/Al using PEDOT:PSS as the HTL and Y6 as the non-fullerene electron acceptor and achieved an efficiency of 15.7%.
The photoactive layer of an OPV device typically consists of a bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) that comprises blends of conjugated polymers as electron donors and functionalized fullerenes as electron acceptors.
Currently, systems consisting of regio-regular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as electron donor and (6,6)-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as electron acceptor are found to be most promising for BHJs, both in terms of efficiency and long-term stability67.
In a typical OPV device, incident photons are absorbed by the electron donor in the active layer and coloumbically-bound electron-hole pairs, known as excitons, are created13.
These excitons are then split into free carriers at the interface between donor and acceptor materials, which are then transported to the corresponding electrodes resulting in a photocurrent.
Apart from the absorption spectrum of the donor material, there are two other important factors that limit the efficiency of these cells.
Hence, excitons must find a donor-acceptor interface within this distance from its point of origin to minimize the losses due to recombination.
Secondly, a continuous percolated network of donor and acceptor materials is critical for successfully transferring the dissociated carriers to their respective electrodes161718.
Based on these factors, it has been suggested that a ‘comb-shaped’ structure, with ~10 nm gap between each tooth, of the acceptor material in the active layer is optimum for maximum possible efficiency of OPVs19.
The morphology of constituents in the photoactive layer can be strongly affected by various factors and processing conditions; such as donor-acceptor composition and molecular weight35363738, choice of solvent39, rate of solvent evaporation40, processing temperature41, use of chemical additives42, etc.
Recent studies have shown that addition of a third component to the donor-acceptor blend shows promising evidence of improvement in the efficiency of the OPV device44.
Similarly, metal nanoparticles like gold, silver, and copper, when added to the transparent layer above the active layer showed an increase in the light absorption ability of the active layer5354 and copper phthalocyanine (CuPc) nanocrystals, when added to the donor-acceptor blends, act as nucleation sites for crystallization55.
On the other hand, when an insulating polymer is added, the structural changes observed are promising and closer to the ideal morphology suggested for maximum possible efficiency, but the presence of insulating polymer not only interferes with the charge transfer dynamics of the donor and acceptor materials but also deteriorates the crystallinity of both domains.
Hence, when a third component is added to the donor-acceptor blend, it is necessary that the added component offers all the advantages but does not hinder the formation, dissociation, or transport of the charge carriers through the corresponding domains.
The efficiency of polymer-based solar cells depends greatly on the morphology of acceptor molecules in the polymer matrix.
Clusters of this type are isolated and a majority of them form away from the cathode causing an electron, dissociated at the donor-acceptor interface, to remain until it is eventually combined with a hole.
This is one of the major reasons for recombination losses second only to the non-availability of a donor-acceptor interface within the exciton diffusion length.
As the concentration of SiNP is very low, the clusters are small and do not span the simulation box, which is essential for a thorough connectivity of the acceptor material.
This is important with respect to the performance of this material as an active layer in polymer-based solar cells because, the dissociation of excitons occurs only at the donor (P3HT)-acceptor (PCBM) interface.
An exciton that is formed within the polymer matrix upon absorption of light can successfully dissociate to give electrons and holes only at the donor-acceptor interface.
It is known that the crystallinity of the polymer domain is crucial for the efficient formation and transport of excitons through the donor material.
Another important parameter that can dramatically alter the efficiency of these cells is the average domain size of the donor material.
AbstractThe ever increasing library of materials systems developed for organic solar‐cells, including highly promising non‐fullerene acceptors and new, high‐efficiency donor polymers, demands the development of methodologies that i) allow fast screening of a large number of donor:acceptor combinations prior to device fabrication and ii) permit rapid elucidation of how processing affects the final morphology/microstructure of the device active layers.
Using the relatively high‐efficiency poly[(5,6‐difluoro‐2,1,3‐benzothiadiazol‐4,7‐diyl)‐alt‐(3,3′′′‐di(2‐octyldodecyl)‐2,2′;5′,2′′;5′′,2′′′‐quaterthiophen‐5,5′′′‐diyl)] (PCE11):phenyl‐C61‐butyric acid‐methyl‐ester acceptor (PCBM) blend systems, it is demonstrated that by means of straight‐forward thermal analysis, vapor‐phase‐infiltration imaging, and transient‐absorption spectroscopy, various blend compositions and processing methodologies can be rapidly screened, information on promising combinations can be obtained, reliability issues with respect to reproducibility of thin‐film formation can be identified, and insights into how processing aids, such as nucleating agents, affect structure formation, can be gained.Identifying high‐performing organic solar cell blends is still an exhausting process relying on labor and time intensive trial‐and‐error procedures.
Organic solar cells (OSCs), which are generally based on bulk heterojunctions (BHJ) between an electron donor and an electron acceptor,[  1  ] have recently achieved power‐conversion efficiencies (PCE) over 16%,[  2  ] rendering this technology attractive for commercial exploitation.
This has led to a large number of novel OSC materials and, in turn, a plethora of donor:acceptor combinations.
[  3  ] However, since the device performance is interlinked in a complex way not only with the properties of the individual components but also with the blends’ microstructure and phase morphology (e.g., the length scale of the donor:acceptor phase separation; the donor:acceptor interfacial area; their phase purity; and the formation of bi‐continuous percolation paths),[  4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  7  ] identifying promising donor:acceptor combinations is still an exhausting process relying on tedious trial‐and‐error procedures.
To illustrate the usefulness of our screening method, we selected poly[(5,6‐difluoro‐2,1,3‐benzothiadiazol‐4,7‐diyl)‐alt‐(3,3′′′‐di(2‐octyldodecyl)‐2,2′;5′,2′′;5′′,2′′′‐quaterthiophen‐5,5′′′‐diyl)] (PCE11)[  11  ] and phenyl‐C61‐butyric‐acid‐methyl ester (PCBM) as a model donor:acceptor system.
The selective “staining” of PCE11‐rich domains by ZnO in the VPI process effectively maps the phase separation as well as the size‐ and spatial distribution of the donor‐ and acceptor‐rich domains in PCE11:PCBM blend films.
While various donor:acceptor systems have been reported to display an eutectic phase behavior, here, we use the comparison of the individual thermograms of the differently cast films to obtain information of how the selected processing conditions affect the samples‘ solid‐state microstructure formation with the goal to provide predictive insights on the solidification tendencies of these OSC bends.
We, thus, conclude that the high‐temperature‐cast conditions may lead in the blend solutions to a higher compatibility between the donor and acceptor molecules.
Since these processes are intricately interlinked with the very local electronic landscape of OSC blends that is dictated by local structural features, such as donor chain conformation, molecular interfaces, and local fullerene packing, TAS is very complementary to the information revealed by VPI and thermal analysis, and helps us come to an informed decision during materials screening.
The combination of DSC, VPI, and TAS is sufficient to screen donor:acceptor blends to identify suitable systems for solar cells prior to device fabrication; it does not require devices to be made.
These observations are in accordance with the picture that small, interconnected, and relatively phase‐pure acceptor domains can act as wells for the generated charges relative to amorphous or mixed domains, and/or provide an entropic (carrier‐density gradient) driving force due to formation of the carriers in a finely intermixed phase.
We thus predict that in the case of wire‐bar coated BHJs, analogous to previously‐reported systems with non‐fullerene acceptors,[  13  ] best device performances will not be in the slightly hypoeutectic regime but at higher acceptor content where we find higher fullerene enthalpies in high‐temperature drop‐cast films, leading to slower dynamics.
In contrast, for spin‐coated blends, J sc and FF increase in an abrupt fashion as soon as small primary PCBM domains are observed (Figure 3b), supporting the idea that one of the key design requirements of materials for BHJ OSCs is their tendency to form phase‐pure, molecularly ordered domains (e.g., in the form of primary acceptor regions).
The images validate the insights obtained from the 2D‐HRSEM images (Figure 1c) that the 45 wt% PCE11 spin‐coated film architecture is based on interconnected donor:acceptor networks, while the wire‐bar coated film of 30 wt% PCE11 is composed of coarse, isolated PCBM‐rich domains within a PCE11‐rich matrix.
This picture is supported by the tomography data representing the 3D donor:acceptor interface (Figure 4c).
In conclusion, we demonstrated a fast‐screening methodology that employs a combination of thermal analysis, vapor infiltration, and transient absorption spectroscopy to deliver the minimum multiscale information on donor:acceptor blend films needed to make informed decisions on BHJ thin films prior to device fabrication and device optimization.
Importantly, this workflow should also be applicable to blends comprising non‐fullerene acceptors.
Initial VPI experiments, for instance, show that a contrast between donor and acceptor domains can be realized (Figure 3c), however, with the contrast inversed to that in PCE11:PCBM blends.
This inverse contrast provides another handle for selective domain “staining” to directly visualize the phase behavior and phase morphology of blends comprising non‐fullerene acceptors—information that will be highly useful to understand the complex phase behavior of many non‐fullerene acceptors.
Here, we report a simple and easy way to prepare three symmetrical donor–acceptor–donor (DAD) organic-emitting materials based on a thienopyrazine core.
Among them, small organic molecules with a donor–acceptor–donor (DAD) type structure appear particularly interesting because their band-gap levels and other related properties can be readily tuned by introducing a variety of donor and acceptor moieties.
In addition, it has been shown that by extending the conjugation of the pyrazine acceptor in an orthogonal direction to the DAD backbone, the ICT transitions are dramatically strengthened, lowering the band-gap and resulting in a bathochromic shift of the emission of the corresponding compounds.
Very recently, we reported some novel thienopyrazine-based organic dyes bearing tetraphenylethylene (TPE) moieties onto the triarylamine donor groups, which also revealed intense light-harvesting ability and emissions in the deep-red and NIR regions, with large Stokes shift values (Figure 2).
Starting from known compound 1a (DTPD), we chose to maintain the triarylamine moiety as the donor group and to change the acceptor core by extending its conjugation, introducing aromatic substituents.
The band in the near-UV region was attributed to a localized π→π* transition of the donor triphenylamine groups [16], while the lower energy band was due to the internal charge transfer (ICT) transition from the donor moiety to the acceptor thienopyrazine core [10].
This type of behavior is characteristic of transitions due to intramolecular charge transfer [10,11,19] since the electron density of the ground state S0 is mainly localized on the triphenylamine donor group and, due to the photoexcitation, is transferred to the electron-poor thienopyrazine core.
This technique has already been employed in the study of donor-acceptor molecules with an application in optoelectronics [22,23].
These ligands usually have a polar headgroup coordinating to the nanocrystal surface atoms through a donor atom (e.g., S, N, O) and a long apolar hydrocarbon tail that stabilizes the nanocrystals in apolar solvents.15 Commonly used ligands include phosphines, amines, and thiols.
The native DDT ligand is bound to the nanocrystal surface through its sulfur atom that donates an unshared electron pair and coordinates to the Cu+.15 In the ligand exchange reactions, the negatively charged replacing ligand (MPA–, MUA–, and S2–) will coordinate its electron-rich sulfur species to the Cu+ site on the nanocrystal,24 thereby weakening the bond between the Cu+ and the donor sulfur atom of the DDT ligands, which will eventually force the native thiolate ligand to leave the nanocrystal surface.
Liq (99%, light yellow powder), MoO3 (99%, white powder), donor material PTB7-Th, and acceptor material PC71BM (99%, black organic material) were all purchased from Lumtec Optoelectronic Materials Co. Ltd.
titanium dioxide (TiO2) or zinc oxide (ZnO)) deposited on a glass substrate.11 Natural or artificial sensitizers are critical components of DSSCs and play a fundamental role in extending their absorption spectra.12 In this sense, different organic, organometallic, and natural dyes can be utilized as sensitizers.13 The electrolyte of a DSSC consists of a redox couple designated as I−/I3− (iodide/triiodide), closed by a counter-electrode typically composed of platinum (cathode).14 In general, most used organic dyes for DSSCs are artificial sensitizers that possess the donor–π-spacer–acceptor (D–π–A) molecular architecture, which is intended to provide intramolecular charge transport (ICT) from the donor unit (D) to the acceptor group (A) via the π-spacer.15–17 Other potential structures of artificial sensitizers, including D–A–π–A,18–20 D–D–π–A,21,22 (D–π–A)2,23,24 D–π–A–A,25,26 and A–π–D–π–A,27,28 have also been established and gained significant importance due to their high efficacy,29 but the most common structure is (D–π–A) because it facilitates electron movement, which improves the efficiency of dyes and allows them to be used in DSSCs.30–32 Since the efficiency of a DSSC cell is highly dependent on the photosensitive dye used in the cell, the following points can be used when designing the cell to improve and raise the efficiency of DSSCs: (a) it must include the most appropriate π-spacers between the electron donor and the acceptor; (b) it is important to have a broad and strong absorption band capable of covering practically all the visible and near-infrared spectral region (NIR); (c) appropriate redox and oxidation potentials of the compound should be investigated to ensure regeneration; (d) a high electron connection is necessary between the molecules and conduction band of the semiconductor (TiO2) to accelerate the transfer of electrons from the dye to TiO2.33–35 It is essential to study the electronic and optoelectronic characteristics of sensitizers for DSSC devices.36 Also, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of the dye being examined should be less than the redox couple energy level (iodide/triiodide I−/I3−) for the dye to be successfully regenerated.37 In addition to allowing the electron to be injected into the anode quickly, the lowest occupied molecular orbital (LUMO) should be above the conduction band (CB) of TiO2.38 Recent research introduced an electron auxiliary acceptor into the conjugated system between the electron-donor moiety and π-linker and used this in the design of a new architecture known as the D–A–π–A system,39–42 where sensitizers are coupled with auxiliary acceptor units, such as quinoxaline,43–46 benzothiadiazole,47–49 thieno[3,4-c]-pyrrole-4,6-dione,50,51 benzotriazole,52–54 and diketopyrrolopyrrole.55,56 Indeed, the D–A–π–A system has shown multiple advantages, including reducing electron recombination, minimizing aggregation, adjusting the molecular energy levels, causing a red-shift of the absorption band, and increasing the photovoltaic efficiency and stability;57–59 whereas several organic dyes of triphenylamine-based compounds have been used as electron donors due to the excellent light-harvesting ability of triphenylamine (TPA)-based molecules, their capacity to control the energy levels of molecules, promote charge generation, and facilitate the formation of intermolecular interactions.60–64 For DSSCs, several electron-acceptor materials have been developed and synthesized.65–67 However, cyanoacrylic acid is often employed as an electron-acceptor material due to its high electron-attracting capacity and solid binding to the TiO2 surface, which facilitates electron injection.68 The selection of the π-spacer is critical when designing D–π–A dyes because it plays a crucial function in regulating the HOMO–LUMO energy levels and expanding the absorption range of organic sensitizers.69 Ying et al.
synthesized and elaborated a series of materials with the D–A–π–A system as sensitizers.58 Among these sensitizers, PT2 (reference molecule), which we named in this article as D1, demonstrated a good performance of 6.11% (Voc = 0.668 V, Jsc = 12.61 mA cm−2, and FF = 0.74), using TPA as the donor, [1,2,5]-thiadiazolo[3,4-c]-pyridine (PT) as the supplementary acceptor fragment, benzene as the π-bridge, and cyanoacetic acid as the electron-acceptor moiety (Fig.
These bond lengths revealed a C   <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" version="1.0" width="13.200000pt" height="16.000000pt" viewBox="0 0 13.200000 16.000000" preserveAspectRatio="xMidYMid meet"><metadata> Created by potrace 1.16, written by Peter Selinger 2001-2019 </metadata><g transform="translate(1.000000,15.000000) scale(0.017500,-0.017500)" fill="currentColor" stroke="none"><path d="M0 440 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z M0 280 l0 -40 320 0 320 0 0 40 0 40 -320 0 -320 0 0 -40z"/></g></svg>  C character in all the dyes, which facilitated ICT between the donor fragment and the -spacer and the -bridge and the acceptor fragment.
This was slightly twisted due to the steric interactions between the π-spacer and acceptor fragments.99 Thus, altering the π-bridge influenced the planarity of these designed molecules, hence increasing their light-collecting effectiveness.
In this work, the proposed dyes (D1–D5) comprised triphenylamine as electron-donor unit [1,2,5]-thiadiazolo[3,4-c]-pyridine as the auxiliary acceptor group, different π-linkers, and acceptor parts (cyanoacrylic acid).
The analysis of the frontier orbitals demonstrated that the HOMO of dye D1 was concentrated on the donor triphenylamine and [1,2,5]-thiadiazolo[3,4-c]-pyridine.
At the same time, the LUMO was distributed on the π-spacers and the acceptor regions (cyanoacrylic acid).
This suggests the electron transfer from the dyes as electron donors to the TiO2 semiconductors as electron acceptors would be relatively straightforward.112 Furthermore, the chemical hardness (η) of all the studied molecules was lower than that of TiO2 (η = 3.78 eV), indicating that all the dyes could release one or more electrons when compared to the TiO2 semiconductor.
The donor and π-linker groups of all the molecules exhibited a positive NBO charge, indicating that they were efficient electron-donating groups.
On the other hand, the negative NBO value of the supplementary acceptor and main acceptor groups suggested they were good electron-withdrawing groups.
During photoexcitation, the NBO charges on the donor groups of each molecule were arranged as follows: D4 (0.136e) > D5 (00.134e) > D1 (0.124e) > D3 (0.117e) > D2 (0.111e), suggesting that D4 and D5 had a better electron-donating capacity than the reference molecule D1.
For the acceptor, the NBO charges for D1–D5 were −0.102, −0.145, −0.198, −0.110, and −0.173e, respectively, indicating that the insertion of thiophene derivatives as π-spacers could augment the electron density in the acceptor.
In addition, Δq(D–A) indicates the difference between the electron donor and acceptor.
8, the MEP revealed that all the dyes' maximum positive area (blue colour) was centred on the carboxyl hydrogen atom and the sulfur atoms of the auxiliary acceptor, mainly for D1, D4, and D5.
In contrast, the negative area (red colour) was primarily centred around the nitrogen atoms of the acceptor groups (–CN) in the D1–D5 dyes, which were the most favourable sites for the electrolyte.
Afterward, we discuss different works focused on the preparation, characterization, and evaluation of triazine derivatives in solar cells, distinguishing the type of photovoltaics and the role of the triazine-based material in their performance (e.g., as a donor, acceptor, hole-transporting material, electron-transporting material, among others).
Furthermore, materials bound to a triazine core (an important π acceptor) have been evaluated as thermally activated delayed fluorescence dopants (TADF), showing good external quantum efficiencies using them, as well as suitable electron transport materials to obtain phosphorescent red and blue organic light-emitting diodes [11,12,13].
For DSSCs, a set of triazine-based dyes have been successfully synthesized containing bis(donor)-acceptor and donor-bis(acceptor) star-shaped molecular configurations.
A particular example of this reaction is provided in Scheme 10, where a triazine-based diphosphonate (produced by the reaction of a brominated agent with triethyl phosphite) is used to produce a substituted triazine with two donor fragments as arms for photovoltaic applications [34].
One of them can promote electrons to a higher energy level when absorbing light (the donor), whereas the other can capture the electrons and move them through its matrix (the acceptor).
In this sense, triazine is an excellent building block for designing and constructing novel organic materials applied as promising acceptors in several architectures of OSCs.
Mainly, SSCMs are constructed with alternating donor and acceptor units in their structures, such that it is possible to tune their electronic properties, i.e., HOMO/LUMO relative energies or bandgap energy, depending on the type of employed unit.
Thus, different combinations have been explored, for example, donor-acceptor-donor (D-A-D), acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A), and their extended versions, where the central unit is the core of the star-shaped molecule [60].
Mainly, they have been used as efficient donors by the chemical modification of the electron-deficient triazine core with the donor’s arms.
However, a few examples of triazine-based small molecules used as acceptors have also been reported.
Likewise, the obtained HOMO/LUMO levels of −5.2 and −3.6 eV, respectively, were suitable for utilizing A1 as a donor material in BHJ solar cells constructed employing PC61BM as an acceptor.
These were designed using triazine as the central acceptor unit, thienylenevinylene as π bridge units, and tert-butyl-substituted triphenylamine (tTPA) as the end of the arms and donor units.
In terms of synthetic protocols, A2 and A3 were obtained through relatively simple Suzuki couplings employing a triazine-derivative boronate ester and the corresponding brominated donor fragments (or R groups of A2 and A3 shown in Figure 4), with acceptable yields (>30%).
For the construction of BHJ solar cells, the authors employed two fullerene derivatives, PC61BM, and PC71BM, as the acceptor material and the synthesized SSCMs as the donor material.
Both types of solar cells presented relatively low PCEs (0.20–2.48%), with a greater performance when using A2:PC71BM due to better light absorption in the visible region and charge transportation between donor and acceptor materials.
Similarly, A-A-D structured SSCMs based on triazine as the central acceptor unit, 2,5-thienyl diketopyrrolopyrrole, and 1,4-phenylene diketopyrrolopyrrole as π bridge and acceptor units, tTPA and tert-butyl-substituted carbazole (tCz) as end groups and donor units (A5–A7 in Figure 4) was reported by Shiau and co-workers in 2015 [46].
As in the previous example, the incorporation of donor units (tTPA and tCz) in the structure of triazine-based acceptor units aims the enhancement of ICT and light absorption by the molecules.
The λMAX at 623, 515, and 505 nm in solution for A5, A6, and A7, respectively, were associated with the ICT transitions between the donor units (tTPA or tCz) and π bridge units.
In addition, strong ICT transitions associated with the triazine core of the molecules and the respective donor arms were also identified.
This way, the prepared SSCMs were used as donor materials for OSCs fabrication with fullerene derivatives as acceptors due to their proper HOMO/LUMO levels (see Table 1).
Other types of substituents have been used as the arms of the triazine core for preparing new donor materials.
Thus, it results in a suitable donor unit for the design of new SSCMs, with the possibility of changing the core unit and the metal cation present in the macrocyclic to tune their optoelectronic properties [66].
The resulting SSCM were characterized by UV-Vis spectroscopy and electrochemical measurements, obtaining satisfactory results in terms of strong and broad light absorption (λMAX at 425 nm, with a molar extinction coefficient of 6.66 × 105 M−1 cm−1) and proper HOMO/LUMO energies (−5.69/–3.31 eV), which make them suitable for BHJ solar cell construction employing PC71BM as the electron acceptor material.
Mainly, A9 contains three porphyrin fragments as donor units and an acceptor triazine core.
However, although the photovoltaic performance of A9-based BHJ solar cells (using also PC71BM as an electron acceptor) was more significant (2.85–3.93%) than the photovoltaic performance of some already discussed SSCMs, it did not result to be greater than the performance of A8.
Triazine-based SSCMs have also been used as non-fullerene acceptor materials in OSCs.
Thermal, optical, and electrochemical properties of A4 were evaluated in work, obtaining results consistent with a suitable acceptor material for OSCs fabrication: decomposition temperatures higher than 350 °C, strong and broad light absorption (390–620 nm, with molar extinction coefficients even up to 5.82 × 106 M−1 cm−1), and HOMO/LUMO energies of –6.03/–3.81 eV.
This way, A4 was employed to fabricate a BHJ solar cell using PTB7-Th as electron donor material.
The obtained PCE for A4 is among the highest values reported for non-fullerene acceptor materials, which reflects the importance of a triazine core in SSCMs.
The molecules contained in their structures were a bromine atom and a cyano group as 4-substituents of the phenoxide rings, respectively, which were included for improving electron acceptor ability.
Generally, these dyes contain a high-conjugated π system with different donor and acceptor units by which it is possible to modulate their electrochemical properties [80,81].
One important example of organic dyes is those based on triazine, which use acceptor triazine units to construct structural arrangements with proper optoelectronic characteristics such that promising efficiencies have been obtained [33].
In this research, they developed six dyes (B1–B6) based on a triazine as a central core linked to different units of donor and acceptor fragments.
Two years later (2013), the same authors [33] reported an extended work on the design of photosensitizers based on triazine as an acceptor core.
In this case, they used larger conjugated fragments (including donor thiophene and furan groups in their structure) to obtain 13 new dyes with greater light absorption properties (B7–B19).
To prove this, they synthesized three dyes (B20–B22) based on a triazine core with three fluorene substituents functionalized with carboxylic anchoring groups and donor diphenylamine and thiophene moieties.
Other works have also studied the inclusion of thiophene fragments as donor arms in triazine-based dyes.
For example, Zhang and colleagues [82] recently published work focused on preparing and evaluating three triazine dyes with conjugated thiophene units as their donor arms (B23−B25).
They employed a triazine core as an acceptor unit coupled to different donor fragments, for example, triphenylamine derivatives.
To efficiently couple and guarantee optimum charge transportation, the acceptor core and the donor fragments were coupled using various π-conjugated bridges, such as phenyl (D1), thiophene (D2), 9,9-dimethyl-9H-fluorene (D3), and 4,4-dimethyl-4H- indeno [1,2-b]thiophene (D4), as can be seen in Figure 11.
Firstly, they employed a synthetic protocol based on Buchwald aminations to prepare triphenylamine-based donor fragments and consecutive Stille couplings to construct the star-shaped molecules with a triazine core, obtaining D3 and D4 with yields of 35–55%.
Through this, the authors highlighted that (i) the conductivity of HTMs is one of the significant factors determining the performance of PSCs, (ii) it can be tunned just by a careful structural design, and (iii) triazine, as an acceptor core, represents an important starting point to generate organic materials with potential applications in PSCs.
It has been highlighted that E1 combines the polar effect of the phosphine oxide (P=O) group with the acceptor character of triazine, resulting in the formation of an interfacial dipole between the perovskite material and the ETM, which facilitates electron extraction/injection processes at the interface level.
Particularly, this molecule possesses a boron-dipyrromethene (well-known as BODIPY) fragment that serves as a donor unit in conjunction with the ZnTPP fragment.
It has been noted that triazine-based organic molecules possess important optoelectronic properties, such as high light-harvesting, fast charge transport, and good physicochemical stability, to accomplish several functions inside organic and hybrid solar cells, (e.g., donor or acceptor materials, photosensitizers, electron- or hole-transporting layers, interfacial materials, and surface passivation).
Mainly, triazine moieties serve as acceptor units due to their electron-deficient nature, and through them, it is possible to modulate electronic energy levels in large molecular structures.
Triazine derivatives have been used as donor and acceptor materials in BHJ and BLHJ OSCs, photosensitizers in DSSCs, and HTMs in planar and mesoporous PSCs.
Given the similar photophysical properties to literature-Cl-ClnBsubNc and the reversible electrochemical nature of phenoxy ClnBsubNcs, the performance of PhO-ClnBsubNc and F5-ClnBsubNc were first examined as electron acceptors within PHJ OPV devices.
This effect is explained by an increase in the distance between the donor and acceptor materials induced by steric hindrance.
This causes the potential energy of electron–hole pairs at the donor–acceptor interface to increase, leading to an enhancement in the VOC.40
Moreover, the drop in the JSCs could be the result of a steric shielding effect (as described above) due to the higher potential energy of electron–hole pairs at the donor–acceptor interface, making it more difficult to separate and collect the individual charge carriers.40 Overall, these results imply that contrary to BsubPcs,28 adding phenoxy groups at the axial position of ClnBsubNc mixtures is detrimental to PHJ OPV device performance.
Having demonstrated the functionality of Cl-ClnBsubNc, PhO-ClnBsubNc and F5-ClnBsubNc as electron acceptors paired with α-6T and having noted the increase in solubility of the phenoxylated ClnBsubNcs, we then moved to explore their potential application in BHJ solution processed OPVs.
The high VOC is of interest and expected relative to standard fullerene-based acceptors based on the established band structure (Figure 1).
The absorption profile of the ClnBsubNc acceptors, however, enables power conversion up to approximately 760 nm.
We added 0.5 and 1% (by volume) 1-chloronaphthalene (1-CN) into the principal solvent of ODCB to prepare films of P3HT/ClnBsubNc, and we observed a change in BHJ OPV metrics, depending on the ClnBsubNc acceptor (Table 3).
Thermal annealing has been proven effective for the increase in performance of BHJ OPVs based on P3HT.46 For devices composed of P3HT and small molecule electron acceptors, higher performance was often obtained when annealed below 150 °C.50−53 Therefore, P3HT/PhO-ClnBsubNc devices were annealed for 15 min at temperatures varying between 110 and 150 °C performed before the deposition of BCP and Ag, so-called prethermal treatment.
(a) J–V characteristics and (b) EQE plots of BHJ OPVs of P3HT/PhO-ClnBsubNc devices as a function of ratio of donor/acceptor.
Photovoltaic Device Parameters of P3HT/PhO-ClnBsubNc Devices as a Function of Ratio of donor/acceptora
However, the inclusion of the phenoxy molecular fragment resulted in PHJ OPVs with higher open-circuit voltages (VOC), suggesting that a steric shielding effect between the donor and acceptor is likely in play and that higher efficiencies could be afforded with a better electron-donating material than alpha-sexithiophene (α-6T) for pairing with the phenoxy ClnBsubNcs.
The ratio of donor to acceptor was initially chosen to be 1.0:0.8.
As mentioned previously, the CEPDB only contains computational results for approximately 2.3 million organic solar cell acceptor candidate materials.
The molecular structures in the CEPDB are generated from 26 different building blocks, as detailed in Hachmann et al.8 Each species in the CEPDB is assigned an ID, with the stoichiometry and SMILES string also provided to give the basic molecular structural information for the organic solar cell acceptor species.
The fill factor, FF is assumed to be 0.65, and the open-circuit voltage given by the following expression, derived by Scharber et al.62with e as the electron charge, EdonorHOMO being the energy of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the donor material in the cell, EacceptorLUMO similarly being the energy of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the acceptor material in the cell, and 0.3 being an empirical correction.
In the CEPDB, the acceptor is assumed to be PCBM, a class of fullerene derivatives commonly used as electron acceptors in both hybrid perovskite and organic photovoltaic materials.
The magnitude of EacceptorLUMO is assumed to be 4.3 eV, in accordance with experimental measurements.30
The short-circuit current density is given by3with the external quantum efficiency EQE set to 0.65 in the Scharber model, Eg as the band gap of the donor material, and ϕph being the incident solar photo flux density as a function of energy E.
The Scharber model shows that computing PCE, Voc, and Jsc only requires determining the HOMO and LUMO levels of the donor material in the OSC, which is readily derived from the quantum chemical calculations performed by Hachmann et al.8
After the CEPDB is preprocessed, stratified sampling is then applied to derive a set of 25 000 candidate OSC donors for training and testing the machine learning models, as utilizing the full preprocessed CEPDB is computationally prohibitive.
The second major dataset used in this work is the HOPV15 dataset, which consists of 350 different experimentally characterized organic solar cell donor structures that have been collated from various studies in the literature by Lopez et al.22 The HOPV15 data is accessible as a single file from the original publication.22 For each of the 350 species, the HOPV15 dataset contains the SMILES and InChI strings that define the molecular structure, as well as the DOI for the original work that experimentally characterized the species in question.
The experimental data in HOPV15 also includes the construction type of the donor species, the architecture of the solar cell, the complement used (i.e., the acceptor material), and any measured photovoltaic characteristics of the organic solar cell.
These photovoltaic characteristics include the HOMO and LUMO energies of the donor, the electrochemical and optical gaps of the donor, as well as the PCE, Jsc, Voc, and fill factor, but not all of these properties are measured for all 350 species in HOPV15.
There are 127 solar cells that made use of molecular constructions for the donor, while 220 used polymeric constructions for the donor species.
The acceptor material used also varies, unlike in CEPDB.
In this case 139 experiments made use of PC61BM as an acceptor, 133 used PC71BM, 9 used C60, 64 used TiO2, 1 used ICBA, and 1 used PDI.
Additionally, while the smallest species in HOPV15 contains just 12 atoms, the largest contains 142 atoms, and the average size of species is roughly 71 atoms, meaning that in general the donor candidates here are much larger than the species in CEPDB.
Specifically, since the CEPDB PCE values assume a PCBM-type material for the acceptor, PCEs measured with a solar cell that did not use PCBM or similar materials as the acceptor, namely, those that used TiO2 were excluded.
It is worth noting that the HOPV15 dataset also contains substantial computational data for each of the 350 organic solar cell donor candidates.
This does suggest that PCEs purely predicted by the Scharber equation are insufficient to predict the actual performance of the material, in agreement with Padula et al.23 Furthermore, the plots also suggest that these popular DFT methods struggle when predicting the HOMO–LUMO gap and LUMO energy of the donor, two popular descriptors used for machine learning models of PCE.
Given this, it was decided that no additional descriptors predicted by DFT would be included in subsequent machine learning models and that the models would only be trained to relate PCE to the underlying molecular structure of the donor as described by the SMILES strings.
Comparison between the donor gap, donor LUMO energy, and Scharber PCE predicted computationally by DFT and by various experiments in HOPV15.
For example, this includes bulk properties of OPV materials such as the structure of the layer and OPV itself, the microstructure of any polymers used in the OPV conjunction, and the contact area between the donor and acceptor in the OPV to name a few.40 These factors likely make the HOPV15 dataset more challenging for machine learning purposes.
In general, all of the machine learning models are able to derive high correlation coefficients between the learned PCE values and the actual PCE values in the CEPDB, suggesting that the CEPDB PCE values correlate well with the SMILES string of the donor molecules.
This is likely due to the nature of the HOPV15 dataset, which is smaller and also much less homogeneous than that of CEPDB due to expected differences in experimental setups, larger chemical complexity of the species in the dataset, and possibly a larger number of variables influencing real-world organic solar cell PCEs that may not be strongly correlated with the structural information of the donor molecules encoded in the SMILES strings, such as bulk solar cell properties.
This will hopefully improve the potential of fast, computational screening of candidate organic photovoltaic donors for clean energy generation in the future.
They deposited various perovskite precursors (MAI, MABr, MACl, CsI, and PbI2 in acetonitrile solvent, respectively) onto NiOx surface and observed that only MAI could bleach NiOx film, which demonstrates that Ni≥3+ sites can oxidize I− only in the presence of a proton donor but neither Br− or Cl− because of their much higher oxidation potentials.
Recently, Zou’s team synthesised the novel non-fullerene acceptor N3, which was adjusted from the state-of-the-art non-fullerene material Y6 and showed advanced photovoltaic performance [30,31].
N3 is a small molecule acceptor with third-position branched alkyl chains [30].
In the middle of the device, a photoactive layer, which is made of the donor material (PM6) and the acceptor material (N3), forms the bulk heterojunction (BHJ).
A photovoltaic performance measurement was conducted using the Ru(ii) dye N3 as a reference to examine the effects of different electron acceptor units and replacement of the π-spacer bifuran by biphenyl units on the photophysical, electrochemical, and photovoltaic properties of eight new distinct organic dyes HB-1–8.
The presented research shows that the organic dye photovoltaic performances can vary greatly depending on the type of electron donor and acceptor used.
Because of its importance to DSSCs, its molecular structure should be carefully engineered to achieve wider panchromatic absorption spectra, appropriate FMO energy levels, and outstanding stability.7 According to this study, the donor–(π-spacer)–acceptor (D–π–A) strategy is the most widely studied molecular geometry for effective organic dyes.8 The π-conjugation linkage between the donating portion and the acceptor unit facilitates effective photo-induced intramolecular charge transfer (ICT).
Several di-anchoring organic dyes designed and synthesized for use in DSSCs have demonstrated better cell performance than mono-anchoring D–π–A sensitizers, with an improved photocurrent due to the extension of the π-conjugated system and the increased molar extinction coefficient.10 Because of its high optoelectronic efficiency, high conductivity potential, and high stability,11 using furan and phenyl as donors is also generally accepted as a good way to improve the chemical, electrical, spectroscopic, and overall stability of the particles that will likely be made.
The newly designed sensitizer incorporates bifuran/biphenyl cores that are directly attached to cyanoacetic acid, barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid and 4-carboxylcyanoacetamide acceptor units on two terminals.
Meanwhile, an intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) occurs from the donors to their associated acceptors and is reflected by an absorption band from 410 to 595 nm.19 The maximum absorption wavelengths (λmax) were recorded for HB-1–8 with the increasing order HB-3 > HB-2 > HB-4 > HB-1 > HB-6 > HB-7 > HB-8 > HB-5.
The optical band gap was also calculated from the intersection between the normalized absorption and emission spectra.20 The maximum absorption of HB-3 with the furan and thiobarbituric acid had a bathochromic-shift of 39 nm relative to that of HB-2 with the barbituric acid acceptor, and it was red-shifted by the same amount relative to that of HB-7 with the biphenyl donor and the same acceptor.21 The reason for this is the improved electron delocalization caused by the π-conjugated sensitizer, as well as the use of furan as a linker in this D–π framework.
The presence of the H-aggregate in the device initiated by dye HB-3 leads to a decrease in the HB-3 sensitizer's *π energy level, and thus broadens its absorption spectrum.25 When compared to other dyes and N3, HB-5 had the lowest absorbance, which is determined by the strength of the anchoring and acceptor groups.
So, it is plausible that the thiobarbituric acid acceptors present in the HB-3 dye might improve the device efficiency of HB-3 relative to that of other dyes.30 Furthermore, HB-3 gives the most negative LUMO level (−3.30 eV), indicating that the electron injection process from the excited dye molecule to the TiO2 conduction band is more efficient for HB-3.
The HOMO levels of HB-1–4 show that the electron cluster is concentrated chiefly on the furan moiety, which then precisely moved from an electron-donating substituent to electron acceptors (cyanoacetic acid, barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid, and 4-carboxylcyanoacetamide) at their LUMO levels, but this occurred to varying degrees for each of these compounds because of their specific electron-receiving properties.
The symmetric bifuran substituent of HB-3 has HOMO, and the LUMO electron density is completely localized on the anchoring thiobarbituric acid substituent, as shown by the findings; this allows for electronic interactions between the LUMO electron density and the TiO2 d-orbitals, and the coexistence between the HOMO and LUMO levels guarantees a rapid photo-induced transfer of electrons from the donating part to the acceptor group.
For HB-3 and HB-7 containing thiobarbituric acid as acceptor, it is localized over the carbonyl group.
Dye HB-1–8 sensitizers have narrower IPCE spectra than N3, resulting in lower photocurrent and lower photovoltaic effectiveness.39 The relatively higher IPCE for HB-3 in comparison to other dyes is consistent with the UV-vis absorption properties' tendency.40 In comparison, HB-1–4 bearing a bifuran attached to various acceptor moieties exhibits a broader IPCE spectrum compared to HB-5–8 containing a biphenyl with various acceptors.
We have synthesized, described, and implemented new bifuran/biphenyl derivatives that contain cyanoacetic acid, barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid, and 4-carboxylcyanoacetamide acceptors in dye-sensitized solar cells.
The photovoltaic performance is highly variable depending on the electron-acceptors in the organic sensitizers.
BackgroundDonor acceptor moieties connected through π-conjugated bridges i.e.
Phenothiazines have been extensively studied as electron donor candidates due to their potential applications as electrochemical, photovoltaic, photo-physical and DSSC materials.ResultsTwo phenothiazine derivatives, 2-((10-hexyl-10H-phenothiazin-3-yl)methylene)malononitrile (3a) and 2-((10-octyl-10H-phenothiazin-3-yl)methylene)malononitrile (3b) have been synthesized in good yields and characterized by various spectroscopic techniques like FT-IR, UV–vis, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and finally confirmed by single crystal X-ray diffraction studies.
In few years, a great interest has developed in molecules having electron donor–acceptor (D–A) properties and their modern applications as dye sensitized solar cells (DSSC) [1], photosensitizers [2] and redox sensitizers [3].
The metal based donor–acceptor (D–A) complexes are well known where a metal atom behaves as an electron acceptor and ligands as electron donor species [4–6].
To avoid the cost of metal and its environmental hazards there is a space for the synthesis of new organic donor–acceptor molecules.
A salient feature of such organic based (D–A) molecules is that donor acceptor moieties are connected through π-conjugated bridges i.e.
Molecules containing phenothiazine as electron donor part have been extensively studied due to their electrochemical [17], photovoltaic [18], photo-physical [19] and DSSC applications [1].
The synthesis of phenothiazine derivatives and their DSSC applications were claimed by many investigators, and the best results were produced in the solar cells where phenothiazine was used as electron donor and boradiazaindacene as electron acceptor candidates [19].
The HOMO (highest occupied molecular orbital) represents the ability to donate electrons and its energy corresponds to ionization potential (I. P.), whereas the LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) acts as electron acceptor and its energy corresponds to electron affinity (E.
strength)–––Gas Phase300.4 (0.37)476.4 (0.21)DCM320 (2.50)474 (2.13)DCM310.4 (0.30)502.9 (0.32)Chloroform321 (2.66)478 (2.24Chloroform309 (0.29)500.5 (0.32)Methanol317 (2.17)478 (2.24)Methanol310.4 (0.35)503.5 (0.30)DMSO319 (0.86)472 (0.73)DMSO311.1 (0.28)505.4 (0.32)(3b)(3b)–––Gas Phase300.4 (0.36)475.7 (0.21)DCM321 (1.30)474 (1.11)DCM310.3 (0.28)501.9 (0.32)Chloroform321 (1.90)478 (1.61)Chloroform309.6 (0.28)499.5 (0.32)Methanol317 (1.06)463 (0.87)Methanol310.3 (0.34)502.5 (0.31)DMSO320 (0.66)473 (0.56)DMSO311.1 (0.26)504.4 (0.32)Table 5Significant donor–acceptor interactions of 3a/3b and their second order perturbation energies calculated at B3LYP level using 6-31G (d, p) basis setDonor (i) (occupancy)TypeEDA, % EDB, %Acceptor (j) (occupancy)TypeEDA, % EDB, %E(2)a (kcal/mol)Ej–Eib (a.u.
)BD C3–C4 1.97721σ49.64 50.36BD* C2–C3 0.02660σ*51.36 48.643.161.250.056BD C4–C5 1.97419σ48.62 51.38BD* C3–C4 0.01233σ*50.36 49.642.531.290.051BD C4–C5 1.59136π44.97 55.03BD* C13–C14 0.24073π*59.29 40.7122.020.270.071BD C2–C3 1.97034σ48.64 51.36BD* C3–C4 0.01233σ*50.36 49.642.691.300.053BD C2–C3 1.60070π53.51 46.49BD* C4–C5 0.42336π*55.03 44.9725.190.280.076BD C1–C2 1.97300σ50.22 49.78BD* C2–C3 0.02660σ*51.36 48.643.441.260.059BD C1–C6 1.97721σ50.97 49.03BD* C5–C6 0.02189σ*50.82 49.182.951.270.055BD C1–C6 1.71641π54.39 45.61BD* C2–C3 0.40194π*46.49 53.5119.810.290.069BD C5–C6 1.97016σ49.18 50.82BD* C4–C5 0.02494σ*51.38 48.623.181.240.056BD C7–C12 1.97320σ49.77 50.23BD* C11–C12 0.02533σ*48.64 51.363.931.280.063BD C7–C8 1.97672σ51.41 48.59BD* C7–C12 0.03387σ*50.23 49.774.581.260.068BD C7–C8 1.69501π53.56 46.44BD* C11–C12 0.38891π*51.02 48.9820.160.280.069BD C11–C12 1.66680π48.98 51.02BD* C9–C10 0.33937π*50.66 49.3420.470.290.069BD C9–C10 1.66550π49.34 50.66BD* C7–C8 0.38725π*46.44 53.5622.740.270.071BD C13–C14 1.81237π40.71 59.29BD* C15–N2 0.08582π*54.47 45.5319.910.390.081BD C13–C14 1.81237π40.71 59.29BD* C16–N3 0.08857π*54.71 45.2920.520.400.083LP N1 1.69519BD* C2–C3 0.40194π*46.49 53.5131.280.270.084LP N1 1.69519BD* C11–C12 0.38891π*51.02 48.9824.090.280.075LP S1 1.84528BD* C1–C6 0.34392π*45.61 54.3912.090.270.053LP S1 1.84528BD* C7–C8 0.38725π*46.44 53.5611.230.270.053 aE(2) means energy of hyperconjucative interactions (stabilization energy) bEnergy difference between donor (i) and acceptor (j) NBO orbitals
Significant donor–acceptor interactions of 3a/3b and their second order perturbation energies calculated at B3LYP level using 6-31G (d, p) basis set
 bEnergy difference between donor (i) and acceptor (j) NBO orbitals
The stabilization energy E(2) associated with i (donor) to j (acceptor) delocalization is approximated from the second-order perturbation approach as given below:\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$E^{\left( 2 \right)} = q_{i} \frac{{F^{2} \left( {i,j} \right)}}{{\varepsilon_{j} - \varepsilon_{i} }}$$\end{document}E2=qiF2i,jεj-εiwhere qi is the donor orbital occupancy, εi and εj are the diagonal elements (orbital energies) and F (i, j) is the off-diagonal Fock matrix element.
The larger the E(2) value is, the greater is the interaction between electron donors and electron acceptors and the extent of conjugation of whole system.
The intramolecular hyperconjugative interactions result in the transfer of charge from donor (π) to acceptor (π*) orbitals.
Molecules containing donor acceptor groups along with pi-electron conjugated system are considered as strong candidates for possessing NLO properties [56].
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices using small molecules have attracted increasing attention due to well-defined molecular structures that can facilitate exploration of structure–property relationships and guide design rules towards better OPV devices.3 In the optimization process of BHJ-OPV device fabrication, control over nanostructures of semiconducting donor and acceptor molecules and their phase separation in the active layer is of primary importance because they are directly related to charge separation and transportation efficiencies.4 Hydrogen bond is one of the powerful tools to precisely control molecular self-organization in the nanoscopic level.5 Several research groups have already applied hydrogen-bonding small-molecule semiconductors for BHJ-OPV devices, but power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of the devices were generally low due to the requirement of installing solubilizing yet non-conducting long alkyl chains into molecular scaffolds.6
For 4:PC71BM, thermal annealing at 80 °C only slightly increased the device performance (PCE = 1.19 → 1.33%, Table S1†), while further raising the annealing temperature to 110 °C seriously reduced the PCE from 1.19 to 0.26% with a large drop of short circuit current density (Jsc: 3.53 → 0.81 mA cm–2) due to the overgrowth of the donor and acceptor phases.
The incorporation of organic molecules containing N-, S-, or O-donors has been universally acknowledged to show peculiarities in boosting efficiency and stability based on Lewis acid–base chemistry.21–30 Recently, Hagfeldt et al.
The resulting dimeric NDI species has been demonstrated to behave as an electron acceptor in functioning OPVCs.
Aminated c‐NDIs have been demonstrated to behave as electron donor triads which exhibit spin‐orbit charge‐transfer intersystem crossing.
Each of these have been demonstrated to work as electron acceptor components in functioning OPVCs.
Synthesis of the molecular electron acceptor species 6 a and 6 b.
The VBM synthesis of dimeric c‐NDIs (6 a and 6 b), which are known to behave as electron acceptors in functioning OPVCs, paves the way for a more environmentally friendly, solvent‐free method for producing all‐polymer, high‐value end products.
When blended with fullerene derivatives as electron acceptors, these materials can form a bulk heterojunction (BHJ) structure.
One effective synthetic strategy for achieving a low energy bandgap that simultaneously provides a good charge carrier mobility involves incorporating molecular electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) units in an alternating conjugated arrangement.30,31 The resulting push–pull effects along the molecular backbone facilitate intramolecular charge transfer, resulting in an electronically delocalized structure.32–34 This type of D–A small molecule material often exhibits a high hole mobility and good conductivity with potential utility as a dopant-free hole transport material (HTM) in efficient perovskite solar cells (PSCs), which have recently emerged as promising photovoltaic devices.35–38 Therefore, the rational molecular design of D–A structures has given rise to high-performance materials with physical properties that are appropriate for use in SM-OPVs as well as in PSCs.
The DTS(BTTh2)2-based compounds were first introduced as donor materials into the SM-OPVs, and subsequently, PSCs were prepared using the high mobility DTS(BTTh2)2 derivatives as a HTM without additives such as hygroscopic lithium bis(trifluoromethane sulfonyl) imide (Li-TFSi) and corrosive 4-tert-butylpyridine (t-BP).
Differences in the nanoscale morphology and charge transport properties of 0–4F pointed to the acceptor BT and its fluorine substitution pattern, which played a critical role in the intermolecular interactions and packing structure of the thin film.
The most effective organic dyes (DSSCs) have the molecular architecture donor-bridge-acceptor (D–π–A); donors (D) are triarylamine or carbazole.
In our study, the phenothiazine group (PTZ) is chosen as a donor while the groups derived from cyanoacrylic acid are considered an acceptor.
This push-pull system facilitates the transfer of intramolecular load from the donor group to the acceptor through the π-conjugated units.
In another work, we investigate the design of six light-absorbing dyes named Di (i = 1–6) with a donor–π–bridge–acceptor (D-π-A) structure.
The analysis shows that the HOMO's of molecules D1, D2, D3, and D4 are localized in the donor groups phenothiazine (PTZ), while LUMO's are spread on the π-spacers and the central acceptor unit.
For the designed molecules D5, D6 and reference (R), the HOMO electrons are largely spread on these molecules with maximum density on donor groups, and with less localization on the acceptor group.
The (EDDM) plots show the decrease of electron density localized on the main electron phenothiazine (PTZ) donor and the π-spacer segments, Additionally, the electron density on the π-linker and the cyanoacrylic acid units increased.
The electron density increment zone (purple) is primarily focused on the acceptor region, with a minor contribution from the π-spacer; however, the electron density (blue) is primarily focused on the donor group, with a minor contribution from the π-spacer for dyes D1-D6.
The structure of the reference molecule consists of phenothiazine (PTZ) as donor and cyanoacrylic acid as electron acceptor [25].
The density of states of the spectrum represents that HOMO density significantly spreads on the donor moiety and slightly on the π-linker group, while LUMO is contributed by the acceptor and π-linker moieties.
Also, a significant amount of charge transfer occurs from the donor group to acceptor regions.Figure 6Density of states for the studied dyes D1-D6 and (R) at B3LYP/6-31G (d,p) level of theory.Figure 6
To compare the partial charges on the donor moiety (phenothiazine), group π-spacers (bridge), and acceptor moiety (cyanoacrylic acid); the calculation of NBO has been carried out using the B3LYP/6-31G (d, p) method in the gas phase (Table 2).
It is noted that all the molecules have positive charges that are situated in the donor part and the π-spacers part, while the negative charges are located in the acceptor part.
Contrarily, the positive charges in the bridge inserted demonstrate that this unit behaves as a donor.
The most positive charge on the donor of the compound D5 and the π-spacer for D6 is the indication of being the most effective electron donor, while the highest negative (NBO) charge for all the studied dyes is located on the acceptor moiety which acts as the best acceptor moiety.
The Natural bond orbital analysis demonstrates the charge-separated state generated in the dye molecule and proves that the charge transfer can be produced between donor and acceptor moieties.
This may be due to a result of the more electron deficient nature of the naphtho [1,2-c:5,6-c']bis ([1,2,5]thiadiazole) acceptor, their planar and rigid backbones usually indicate a close intermolecular interaction [36].
Therefore, the dyes (D1-D6) have greater electron transportability between the cyanoacrylic acid (acceptor) and phenothiazine (PTZ) (donor) moieties.
In fact, this parameter provides information on the distribution of the interactions between donor group and acceptor, and also on the linked electron-hole pairs and identify their delocalization and coherence lengths [52].
Coherence successfully passes from the donor to the acceptor unit with an effective contribution to the bridge unit, which acts as a facilitator for the transfer of electrons without trapping them.
The order of interaction coefficient of the studied molecule between the donor and acceptor parts is D4 < D1< D2< D3< R < D5< D6.
Herein we design and synthesize a fused-ring electron acceptor named Y6-4O through introducing an asymmetric highly polarizable oligo(ethylene glycol) side chain onto the pyrrole unit of Y6.
Thanks to their low weight, intrinsic flexibility, semitransparency and large-area processability, organic solar cells (OSCs) have gained broad interest as a promising photovoltaic technology.1−4 In particular, in the past 5 years, owing to the rapid development of fused-ring electron acceptors (FREAs), the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of OSCs have reached 18%.5−20 However, in comparison with conventional inorganic (e.g., silicon, GaAs) solar cells and hybrid perovskite solar cells, the performance of OSCs still greatly lags behind.21 One of the significant limitations for the further PCE enhancement of OSCs is the relatively low dielectric constant (εr) of traditional organic photovoltaic semiconductors (εr of 3 to 4), which limits the exciton dissociation efficiency.22 In contrast, the typical inorganic/hybrid semiconductors exhibit higher εr values (Si: ∼12, GaAs: ∼12, and perovskite: ∼18).23−25 A high εr can reduce the Coulomb attraction within excitons, facilitating the charge separation at the donor/acceptor interface with decreased charge recombination possibility, which can boost the device efficiency enhancement.26 A small exciton binding energy (Eb) given a value close to thermal energy kBT (kB is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature) can make it promising for OSCs to acquire an enhanced PCE of >20%.22
Here we proposed a rational molecular design strategy named “asymmetric glycolated substitution” for the enhanced permittivity and ecocompatibility of high-performance photovoltaic electron acceptors.
Meanwhile, the introduction of a hydrophilic polarizable glycolated side chain can obviously increase the solubility of Y6-4O in nonhalogen solvents, which benefits the fabrication of green-solvent-processed OSCs and reduces the harm to human health and the environment.34 When blended with polymer donor PM6, the as-cast devices based on glycolated Y6-4O processed using toluene showed a high PCE of 15.2%, notably better than that of the control devices based on the alkylated Y6 acceptor (7.38%).
To study the photovoltaic performance of Y6-4O as an electron acceptor, we blended the commercial polymer PM646 (Figure S3) as the donor material for its complementary absorption spectra and matched energy levels (Figure S4).
Given the well-separated absorption peaks between acceptors and donors, we can tune the pump wavelength to selectively excite the acceptors (i.e., Y6 and Y6-4O) and avoid the excitation of PM6 in the blend films (Figure S4).
This rapidly formed PM6 GSB has been attributed to the ultrafast direct exciton dissociation via the hole transfer at the interfaces between the acceptor and donor domains, leading to the spatially separated charges.54−56 As the delay increased, the exciton bleach of the acceptors gradually decreased, accompanied by the growth of the PM6 GSB.
This relatively slower spectral evolution has been attributed to the interfacial dissociation of the excitons that migrate from the inside of the acceptor domains to the interfaces, which reflects the exciton diffusion in the acceptor domains.55 In addition, the hole transfer from the acceptors to the donor also accounts for the ESA feature evolving into a broader positive feature, which has been ascribed to the spatially separated electrons and holes located in the acceptor and donor, respectively.54,57−59 Taking into account the electron–phonon interaction, these charge carriers can be treated as polarons.
The Coulomb attraction can bind the oppositely signed polarons residing across the acceptor–donor interface as polaron pairs, which are then denoted as interfacial polaron pairs (i-PPs).
At a delay of ∼0.2 ps, the direct interfacial hole transfer is completed, but negligible excitons created inside the acceptor domains diffuse to the interfaces.
The bleach amplitude of the acceptors at this delay indicates the number of excitons, and we can assume that there is the same number of the excitons in the two samples by scaling their TA spectra together (Figure 4c).
(f) TA kinetics of the exciton bleach of acceptors in PM6:Y6 and PM6:Y6-4O blend films.
The direct interfacial hole transfer takes place on a subpicosecond time scale,55 which is much shorter than the exciton lifetime in the acceptors.
Recently, studies have justified that the i-PPs can also relax to the triplet state of the acceptors, which has a detrimental impact on the device performance.53,57 The interfacial recombination can be suppressed if the i-PPs dissociate into further separated electron and hole polarons.
The exciton bleach recovery kinetics of acceptors in the two blend films are displayed in Figure 4f.
At short delays, the exciton bleach of Y6 decayed significantly faster than that of Y6-4O, suggesting that compared with PM6:Y6-4O, more excited acceptors in PM6:Y6 return to the ground state via either exciton recombination or interfacial i-PP recombination.
The former recombination channel depopulates the excited acceptors in the same rate, so this mechanism is ruled out.
The acceptor domain sizes (2Rg) of PM6:Y6 and PM6:Y6-4O blends are fitted to be 15.8 and 20.8 nm, respectively, which may explain the faster formation of PM6 GSB in PM6:Y6 blend films relative to Y6-4O-based films.
The bimolecular recombination coefficient (β) can be defined by the following expression61,62where γ is a dimensionless parameter, kL is the Langevin rate constant, μdouble is the effective mobility of the double carrier device, μh and μe are the hole and electron mobility in the blend films, and εr is the average value for the donor and acceptor (Figure S10).
In summary, we used a rational molecular design strategy to simultaneously enhance the permittivity and ecocompatibility of the high-performance electron acceptor Y6 through introducing an asymmetric highly polarizable OEG chain onto the pyrrole unit.
The Voc ideally correlates with the energetic difference between the EIP (HOMO) of the donor polymer and the EA (LUMO) of the [60]PCBM acceptor.
Low solubility also seems to cause poor miscibility with the electron acceptor [60]PCBM, which might partly explain the limited performance of the devices.
Optimization of several parameters such as the morphology, variation of the mutual component ratio in blends and utilization of more appropriate device architecture could further improve the OPV devices.63−68 We have recently shown that fullerene aggregation occurs in the blend layers, which can negatively influence the device performance.69 Using blends with a nonfullerene acceptor for the active layer is another way to improve the stability and performance of OPV.70−76
Small-molecule (SM) organic semiconductor donor materials possess many unique characteristics compared to conjugated polymer (CP) donor materials.
One example of a bulk morphology change is the phase separation of the SM and fullerenes in SM-BHJ blends, which would result in the formation of large pure donor and acceptor phase crystallites [25,26].
The charges generated by light absorption and exciton dissociation at the electron donor/electron acceptor interface must be transported via intramolecular and intermolecular transport mechanisms.
A binary blend of an SM donor named LGC-D073 and the acceptor PC71BM was used as the photoactive layer.
An increase in exciton quenching is a typical finding which indicates a reduction in the relative domain size of a polymer blended with an acceptor material and in this system it appears that as a longer ligand moiety is used an increase in quenching is observed.
[33] This observation of hole transfer showing very little dependence on morphology in comparison to electron transfer was previously seen in this system whereby the hole transfer was found to be not very dependent on the composition of blends, whereas after P3HT excitation the amount of charges yielded was highly dependent on having a high amount of acceptor material.
This problem can be addressed by judicious design of the photosensitizer, including extension of the conjugated system to increase the distance between the electron acceptor unit and the p-type semiconductor surface.
In the current DFT study, seven dimethoxyl-indaceno dithiophene based semiconducting acceptor molecules (ID1–ID7) are designed computationally by modifying the parent molecule (IDR).
The acceptor molecules' open-circuit voltages (VOC) were computed after being linked to the PTB7-Th donor molecule.
Based on the outcomes of this study, the modified acceptors may be further scrutinised for empirical usage in the production of organic solar cells with enhanced photovoltaic capabilities.Seven new small acceptor molecules (ID1–ID7) have been computationally developed to enhance the efficiency of organic solar cells.
Commercially available silicon (Si) solar cells have an extraordinary power conversion efficiency (PCE), but their manufacture is energy-intensive and pollutes the environment significantly due to the processing and purifying of silicon crystals.1–3 In contrast, organic solar cells (OSCs) of the third generation have the benefits of a simplified device fabrication, inexpensive solution preparation, and the potential to be produced as bendable and semitransparent systems.4–7 The PCE of OSCs has amplified rapidly because of the recent developments in the engineering and manufacturing of highly efficient optoelectronic semiconductors and improvement on the device fabrication.8–13 In particular, n-type organic semiconductor (n-OS) based small acceptor molecules14–17 with a low bandgap (Egap), when combined with a p-type donor polymer having a medium Egap, have shown remarkable optoelectronic performance.18–20 The PCE of polymer based solar cells having an n-OS as an accepting moiety has increased to a 14%, surpassing the limit for PSCs to be used in practical settings.21–23 The majority of highly efficient donor and acceptor optoelectronic materials, though, currently contain complex chemical geometries.24,25 Large amounts of energy are required, and a substantial expense is incurred, during their manufacture due to the many purifications and poor yields that are inevitable.
Presently, ITIC26 and IDIC27 are the two most popular and commonly utilized examples of highly efficient n-OS acceptors.
The optical bandgap of IDIC is 1.60 eV, and its electron mobility is very high i.e., 1.1 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1.27,28 Though when blended with PDCBT-Cl, its maximum output voltage (0.94 V) and fill factor (64.2%) values are slightly lower to the ITIC (1.01 V and 64.8%), but its PCE of 9.12% is quite higher to the 7.05% of ITIC, which could be due to its higher short circuit current value of 15.0 mA cm−2 compared to the 10.6 mA cm−2 of its counterpart.29 In contrast to ITIC, IDIC has alkyl side groups on its IDT centre, a small fused ring in its central entity, and so has the capability to be the least priced acceptor.
A more effective strategy for preparing the n-OS acceptors with alkyl side-groups was, hence, required.
Using MO-IDT as a building block, the inexpensive acceptor MO-IDIC was synthesized, and its photovoltaic characteristics were studied in depth.
There was a significant PCE increase (11.16%) in PTQ10-donor MO-IDIC-acceptor PSCs.
According to the findings, MO-IDIC shows promise as a low-priced n-OS acceptor for potential PSC applications in the future.31
In the present research, we have used MO-IDIC as a reference molecule (IDR) and have replaced lengthy alkyl chains with methyl groups, for the sake of saving time and effort, because the existence of long alkyl chains do not impose any considerable impact on the optoelectronic features of the molecules.32,33 The electron donor core of IDR is dimethoxyl-indaceno dithiophene based and 2-(2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-malononitrile is the end-group (EG) existing on the both peripheral sites of the core.
Seven new acceptors (ID1–ID7) have been developed computationally by replacing the exiting EGs of IDR with 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarbonitrile in ID1, 1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5,6-dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester in ID2, 6-cyano-1-dicyanomethylene-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-5-carboxylic acid methyl ester in ID3, 2-(3-chloro-5-methylene-6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-cyclopenta[c]thiophen-4-ylidene)-malononitrile in ID4, 5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-trifluoromethyl-ethylidene)-indan-1-one in ID5, 5,6-dichloro-3-dinitromethylene-2-methylene-indan-1-one in ID6, and (5,6-difluoro-2-methylene-3-oxo-indan-1-ylidene)-methanedisulfonic acid in ID7 correspondingly, as shown in Fig.
Most of a molecule's charge in its ground state is found in its core region, which is called the donor region.
The planarity of molecular structures allow for significant charge transport functions, and charge mobility features of compounds from donor to acceptor locations is proof of this effective conjugation.
Strong IP and EA of compounds are the result of electron-withdrawing components that stabilize the HOMO state while compounds with low IP and EA are brought on by HOMO destabilizing electron-donor components.59Eqn (3) and (4)60 are used to calculate both these parameters.3IP = [E0+ − E0]4EA = [E0 − E0−]
This is ascribed to the pair of electronegative chloro and nitro groups in the EG acceptors of ID6 molecule.
Studies of DOS are essential for learning how the various elements (donor, acceptor, etc.)
Separating each molecule into its donor and acceptor pieces allowed us to analyse the effect of each individual unit on the FMOs.
In the DOS schemes of IDR and ID1–ID4 and ID7 molecules, red and green lines show the donor and acceptor contribution in the FMOs and in ID5 and ID6 molecules, red and green lines are showing the contribution of acceptor–donor subunits in the FMOs (Fig.
It is expected from the outcomes that the core donor component has a more significant role in the HOMO state, whereas acceptor component plays a greater role in the LUMO state in all of the tested compounds' FMOs.
This offers irrefutable confirmation for the feasibility of charge transfer by successive conjugation between donor and acceptor components of a molecule, which has the capability to increase the ultimate efficacy of OSCs.
Because of their planar shape, molecules are able to effectively transport charge from electron-rich donor core area to the peripheral electron-accepting EGs in excited state, as shown by the results.
Acceptor and donor subunits involvement in the FMOs of studied molecules
The RE offers a quantified estimate of the charges moved from molecule's donor section to the acceptor, and is therefore connected to mobility of electrons and holes of the molecule, making it the most crucial factor in the design of components that are useful for OSCs.68 Actually, the RE is inversely correlated to the electrons and holes' mobility.
The electrostatic frequency can be seen in acceptor (A) and donor (D) both areas of IDR and ID1–ID7 (Fig.
Electrostatic potential alternates between flowing diagonally and off-diagonally from donor to acceptor all throughout the molecule, with the former being the more prevalent of the two.
The images displayed the sequential conjugation of the compounds' EGs with the donor core sections, demonstrating the systematic transmission of electric densities from the donor central segment to the EGs.
Any solar instrument's photovoltaic aptitude can be assessed by quantifying its open circuit voltage (VOC), making it a key aspect of understanding how the device functions.75 When no additional current is placed on an optical device, the voltage measured as VOC indicates the maximum voltage that can be delivered by the device.76 The highest voltage is generated when the HOMO from donor compound and LUMO from acceptor one are linked together.
Reduced HOMO energies of donor and the increased LUMO energies of the acceptor are required to achieve the increased VOC values.
In the presented work, the HOMO of PTB7-Th donor was coupled with studied acceptors' LUMO (IDR, ID1–ID7) to release the utmost VOC.
The available study demonstrates that PTB7-Th, with its HOMO and LUMO energy of −5.20 and −3.60 eV, is a reliable donor for theoretical calculations due to its comparable LUMO value to the NFAs' LUMO for easy charge transfer.77 Here, we used eqn (7)78 to get a numerical approximation of VOC values.7
The proposed small acceptors (IDR, ID1–ID7) and PTB7-Th donor are shown in Fig.
 V OC of IDR and ID1–ID7 acceptors with PTB7-Th donor.
The VOC present at the interface of the acceptor–donor materials has a major impact on FF.
In this study, seven small acceptor-molecules (ID1–ID7) were computationally designed to optimize OSC performance by modifying the reference molecule's (IDR) EG acceptor.
In the present work, the HOMO of PTB7-Th donor was coupled with the LUMO of the studied NFAs (IDR, ID1–ID7) to produce the maximum and ID5 molecules have a higher VOC value (1.67 eV) than IDR molecules do (1.46 eV).
In solid matrix (poly(methylmethacrylate), i.e., PMMA, film), the triplet state lifetimes are 0.7–1.4 ms. We also used triplet sensitization experiments (anthracene as triplet energy donor and BODIPY derivative as triplet energy acceptors) to observe the energy transfer process from anthracene to the BODIPY derivatives (Figures S10–S17).
The importance of the vertical distribution of electron-donor and electron-acceptor materials in the active layer of PSCs has been demonstrated through a variety of recent studies.
[17–20] In fact, one of the most efficient methods to increase their PCE is to include electron-donor or electron-acceptor only buffer layers between the active layer and the anode or cathode, respectively.
However, as a large difference in FF can be observed between transferred devices without and with PCBM, we can assume that the donor-acceptor vertical concentration gradient in the active layers of our devices also greatly influences the FF.
The applications of non-fullerene acceptor Y6 with a new type of A1-DA2D-A1 framework and its derivatives have increased the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic solar cells (OSCs) up to 19%.
Researchers have made various modifications of the donor unit, central/terminal acceptor unit, and side alkyl chains of Y6 to study the influences on the photovoltaic properties of OSCs based on them.
However, up to now, the effect of changes of terminal acceptor parts of Y6 on the photovoltaic properties is not very clear.
In the present work, we have designed four new acceptors—Y6-NO2, Y6-IN, Y6-ERHD, and Y6-CAO—with different terminal groups, which possess diverse electron-withdrawing ability.
All these breakthroughs can be attributed to the emergence of the revolutionary Y6 (BTPTT-4F) non-fullerene acceptor (NFA), synthesized by Zou and co-workers [2].
With a new A1-DA2D-A1 (A: acceptor group; D: donor group) molecular framework, Y6 consists of two strongly electron-withdrawing peripheral groups linked by a ladder-like multi-fused DAD group.
For instance, the side alkyl chains on the pyrrole ring of Y6 were substituted with 2-butyloctyl chains to synthesize the new acceptor, BTP-4F-12 [5], and a higher PCE of 16.4% (OSC: PBDB-TF/BTP-4F-12) was achieved, whereas the PCE of the prototype of the PBDB-TF/Y6 OSC is 15.3%.
The second modification strategy is the change of the donor unit of Y6.
Altering the central acceptor unit of Y6 is a third modification strategy.
On the other hand, an asymmetric non-fullerene acceptor LL3, one of the Y6 derivatives, was designed and synthesized with one expanded norbornyl-modified 1,1-dicyanomethylene-3-indanone (CBIC) terminal group and a chlorinated 1,1-dicyanomethylene-3-indanone (IC-2Cl) terminal group, and the OSC based on LL3 had a PCE of 16.82%, which was higher than symmetric LL3-2Cl (14.4%) [12].
As mentioned above, the modifications on alkyl chains, donor units, central acceptor units, and the end group of Y6 have been successfully conducted to investigate their effects on photovoltaic properties.
The effect of the changes in terminal acceptor parts on the dipole moment, FMO energy, UV-Vis absorption spectra, electrostatic potential (ESP), exciton binding energy, electron/hole distribution, and charge carrier mobility have been systematically studied.
The purposes of this work are two-fold:(1)To investigate the effects of different terminal acceptor units on the photovoltaic properties of Y6.
(2)To find new promising acceptors (if possible).
To investigate the effects of different terminal acceptor units on the photovoltaic properties of Y6.
To find new promising acceptors (if possible).
So, the crystallinity of BTP-4Cl is better than that of Y6, and the PCE of the OSC with BTP-4Cl as an NFA and PM6 as a donor rises to 16.1% [10].
Generally, the electron acceptance ability is worse with smaller averaged ESP, so Y6-IN, Y6-ERHD, and Y6-CAO are not better acceptors from this perspective.
As the electron-withdrawing ability of the terminal acceptor unit decreases, the energy gaps of these acceptors generally becomes higher (except for Y6-ERHD) and the energy of the LUMO increases.
Table S1 shows the results of the calculated excited states of these acceptors.
The intramolecular charge-transfer amounts (qCT) of five molecules are different (0.414–0.576 e), indicating that changing the terminal acceptor unit affects qCT.
The following equation was used to calculate the inner reorganization energy [37,38]:(8)λi, e=E0A−−E0A0+E−A0−E−A− where λi, e means the inner reorganization energy during electron transfer; E0A− is the total energy of the neutral acceptor in the optimized geometry of the anion; E0A0 represents the total energy of the neutral acceptor in the optimized geometry of the neutral molecule; E−A0 denotes the energy of the negative acceptor in the optimized geometry of the neutral molecule; and E−A− is energy of the negative acceptor in the optimized geometry of the anion.
Taking into account environmental impact, external reorganization energy (λo) is defined as the energy required for the molecular nuclear relaxation and electronic polarization of the surrounding molecules of acceptor dimers during the charge-transfer process.
In addition, RD and RA donate the effective radius of the donor and acceptor, respectively.
Organic solar cells using the synthesized compounds as the electron donor and PC61BM as the electron acceptor were fabricated and tested.
Among various electron-donating moieties, benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDT) has been widely used as the central building block for constructing high-performance A–π–D–π–A-type organic semiconductors for organic solar cells, where A represents the terminal electron acceptor unit, D represents the core electron donor unit, and π represents the conjugated π-bridge [13–14], and a maximum PCE of 9.95% was reported for a terthiophene-bridged small molecule with a BDT core [8].
The other one is to attach different electron acceptor units at the terminal of the molecules, including: dicyanovinyl [20–21], cyanoacetate [20–23], rhodanine [8,14,17,19,23], 1,3-indandione [16], and diketopyrolpyrol (DPP) moieties [24–25].
Changing the electron-withdrawing strength of the terminal electron acceptor unit, on the other hand, will change the intramolecular charge transfer state and tune the light absorption ability, which will consequently change the photovoltaic performance of the materials as well.
Organic solar cells based these conjugated small molecules as the electron donor were fabricated and tested.
On the other hand, the low-lying HOMO energy level of COOP-nHT-TBDTs would be beneficial for achieving a high open circuit voltage (VOC), since VOC of organic solar cells is directly related to the difference of the HOMO energy of the donor material and the LUMO energy of the acceptor.
Bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells with a device structure of ITO/PEDOT:PSS (30 nm)/photoactive layer/LiF (1.5 nm)/Al (100 nm) were fabricated and tested, where the blended solid film of the synthesized small molecules as donor and PC61BM as acceptor was used as the photoactive layer.
Previous modifications of the indoline skeleton, including works by the authors, suggested molecular design in terms of an extended π-conjugation, a combination of donor-acceptor moieties, and an anchoring group to the TiO2 nanoparticles of the photoanode.
We anticipated that the thiazolidine skeleton worked as an electron-acceptor part in the dye (vs. the electron-donating indole residue) and that introduction of the second carboxylic acid on the thiazolidine could enhance the binding of the dye on TiO2.
The polymer solar cell (PSC) in a conventional structure based on PDTPO-IDT as donor and [6,6]-phenyl-C71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) as acceptor achieves a high power conversion efficiency (PCE) of up to 7.33%, the highest value for PSCs based on polymers with optical bandgap over 2.0 eV to date, along with a remarkable open-circuit voltage (Voc) approaching 0.97 V. The performance of the PDTPO-IDTT based PSC is slightly behind this with a moderate PCE of 5.47% under the same conditions.
Organic photovoltaics (OPVs), emerging as an environmentally benign technology with the function of converting solar energy into electricity, have shown attractive prospects owing to their low-cost, low weight, large area and flexible fabrication.1–8 Gratifyingly, through in-depth research on theories9–11 and novel materials,5,12–16 the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) solar cells based on conjugated polymers as donors and [6,6]-phenyl-C71/C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM or PC61BM) as acceptors have reached over 10% for single junction solar cells17–22 and 11% for tandem solar cells.23,24 Such high efficiency polymer solar cells (PSCs) usually employ photoactive materials with low or medium bandgaps, for the purpose of enlarging incident light harvesting and originally promoting short circuit current density (Jsc).
Ladder-type electron-donor units with linearly fused aromatic or heteroaromatic subunits have been widely utilized to build low and medium bandgap materials.29–32 This is because covalently forced planarization can extend effective conjugation length along a polymer backbone and promote π-electron delocalization between parallel p-orbitals.
When they are copolymerized with common electron-deficient units, such as 4,7-dibromo-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (BT),31,33–35 4,7-dibromo-5,6-difluoro-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole (2FBT),34–36 1,3-dibromo-thieno[3,4-c]pyrrol-4,6-dione (TPD),35,37–39 the absorption spectra of the resulting polymers often exhibit, to a certain extent, blue shifting compared with polymers based on 4,8-bis(2-ethylhexyloxy)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDTO) and 4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene (BDTT) coupled with similar acceptor units.
This means that both IDT and IDTT are weaker electron donors than benzodithiophenes (BDTO and BDTT), which will facilitate wide bandgap.
Aiming to explore new wide bandgap materials, herein, we designed and synthesized two new polymers, PDTPO-IDT and PDTPO-IDTT (Scheme 1), by replacing BDTs with IDT and IDTT units as electron donors to copolymerize with the DTPO unit.
Both copolymers have the same LUMOs of –3.27 eV, which are higher than those of PDTPO-BDTO (–3.37 eV) and PDTPO-BDTT (–3.35 eV) which we previously reported.40 This means that the offsets between the LUMO energy levels of donor and acceptor (PC71BM) tend to become larger, which will provide a greater driving force to accelerate the exciton separation, and decrease the exciton recombination rate around the interface between donor and acceptor.
A larger torsion angle in PDTPO-IDTT results from larger steric hindrance of IDTT due to the interactions between ipsilateral alkyl chains of the donor and acceptor.
S3†), where ITO (indium tin oxide) was the anode, PEDOT:PSS (poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate)) was used as the hole transporting layer (HTL), PC71BM served as the electron acceptor, and Ca/Al worked together as the cathode.
When the donor unit copolymerized with DTPO is changed from IDTT to IDT, the Voc, Jsc, FF and PCE showed obvious improvement with/without a DIO additive.
Hence, higher Voc values in PDTPO-IDT and PDTPO-IDTT based PSCs could be anticipated compared to that of the P3HT based PSC, as the Voc value and the difference in energy between the HOMO of the electron donor and the LUMO of the electron acceptor are positively and linearly correlated.50,51 Interestingly, the HOMO energy level of PDTPO-IDT is higher than that of PDTPO-BDTO (–5.38 eV) by 0.06 eV,40 however, the PDTPO-IDT based PSC achieved a higher Voc (Table 3).
A more accurate Voc value can be calculated using the following equation:461where EALUMO is the LUMO energy level of the acceptor (A) and EDHOMO is the HOMO energy level of the donor (D).
NALUMO is the density of states of the LUMO of the acceptor and NDHOMO is the density of states of the HOMO of the donor.
n is the density of electrons of the acceptor and p is the density of holes of the donor.
The invention of an organic donor-acceptor structural analog of a silicon p-n junction in 1974 [1] marked the beginning of the intensive research in the field of molecular electronic devices.
For fullerene acceptor-based OSCs, the successful use of additives was first demonstrated by Heeger’s group with 1,8-octanedithiol [29,30].
Electron-acceptor small-molecules possessing a long exciton lifetime and a narrow energy band gap, opposing the energy gap law, are highly desirable for high-performance organic photovoltaics (OPVs) by realizing their efficient light-harvesting ability (LH), exciton diffusion (ED), and charge transfer (CT).
Toward this goal, we designed an acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) type nonfullerene acceptor (NFA), TACIC, having an electron-donating, self-assembling two-dimensional (2D) nanographene unit, thienoazacoronene, at the center with electron-withdrawing groups at both ends.
When combined with a conjugated polymer donor, PBDB-T, slow ED and CT were observed (60 ps) with the excitation of TACIC owing to the large TACIC domain sizes.
This result will open up avenues for a rational strategy of OPVs where LH, ED, and CT from the acceptor side as well as LH, EnT, ED, and CT from the donor side can be better designed by using 2D nanographene as a promising building block for high-performance A–D–A type NFAs.A nonfullerene acceptor, TACIC, showed efficient light-harvesting, exciton diffusion, and charge transfer.
Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) have several advantages such as potential low cost, absorption tunability, mechanical flexibility, and roll-to-roll manufacture capability, which are absent in their inorganic counterparts.1 Prerequisites to achieving a high power conversion efficiency (PCE) of OPVs include (i) efficient light-harvesting (LH), (ii) exciton diffusion (ED) to the donor–acceptor (D–A) interface, (iii) charge transfer (CT), (iv) charge dissociation (CD), and (v) charge collection (CC) with small energy loss.
Recently, considerable progress has been realized in OPVs owing to the rapid development of efficient nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs).2,3 Among NFAs, A–D–A type small-molecule acceptors, as represented by ITIC (Fig.
The PCEs of single-junction OPVs based on A–D–A NFAs with conjugated polymer donors have reached up to 10–17%.2–5 Compared to conventional fullerene-based acceptors,6 NFAs show intense and broad optical absorption in the visible and near infrared (NIR) region as a result of their low band gaps, achieving high LH ability.
If NFAs could accomplish both the high efficiencies of LH and ED without such energy loss, we would achieve higher photovoltaic performance, e.g., by reducing the film thickness as well as optimizing the combination with donor polymers with complementary absorption.
A–D–A NFAs generally consist of a fused ring electron-donating core with side chains hanging out from the molecular plane and two compact strong electron-withdrawing units at both ends.3 The fused-ring donor structure at the center has an important influence on the electronic properties and intermolecular interactions of NFAs, which impact their physicochemical and photovoltaic properties.
Herein, the photophysical and electronic properties of TACIC and its photovoltaic performance, in combination with a middle-band gap conjugated polymer donor, PBDB-T (Fig.
Because the open-circuit voltage (VOC) of an OPV device is generally proportional to the energy difference between the LUMO of the electron-acceptor and the HOMO of the electron-donor, TACIC-based OPV devices are likely to have a higher VOC than ITIC-based ones.
The devices adopted a configuration of ITO/ZnO/PBDB-T:acceptor/MoO3/Ag.
These data indicate effective ED and CT from the donor to acceptor and vice versa in PBDB-T:TACIC and PBDB-T:ITIC.
So far, there have been several reports referring to the photodynamics of the blend films of a conjugated polymer donor and NFA with the selective excitation of the polymer donor, where the band gap of the NFA is smaller than that of the polymer donor.10c,23 In all such previous reports, however, EnT was not observed, only CT was seen.
Consistently, when combined with a conjugated polymer donor, PBDB-T, unusually slow (60 ps) but highly efficient ED and CT (96% in total) were achieved with the excitation of TACIC.
Furthermore, because TACIC has a long exciton lifetime and acts as an excellent energy acceptor from the polymer donor, the TACIC-based OPV devices are expected to show high ED efficiencies, even in the phase-separation structure with large domain sizes.
This work will open up avenues for a new rational strategy of OPVs where all the photocurrent generation processes, LH, ED, and CT starting from the acceptor side as well as LH, EnT, ED, and CT starting from the donor side can be better designed by using a 2D heterocyclic nanographene core as a promising building block for high-performance A–D–A type NFAs.
Realizing the recent energy conditions across the globe, research is diverted from fullerene to non-fullerene electron acceptor moieties in this era, considering their remarkable contribution in organic solar cells (OSCs).
Therefore, we designed seven novel non-fullerene fused ring electron acceptor chromophores (MD2–MD8) from DOC2C6-2F by structural tailoring with different acceptors at end-capped units.
The OSCs have a blend of donor and acceptor molecules which link directly with each other through a backbone.
OSCs bearing fullerene acceptors hold appealing assets including improved PCE, higher charge mobility7.
In spite of these advantages, there have been found certain limitations associated with fullerene acceptors that limit their use8.
To overcome such shortcomings of fullerene derivatives, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs)9 materials with acceptor–donor–acceptor (A–D–A) backbone has given a great deal of attention10.
A–D–A combination comprises of central donor core unit which attached with two sideways electron deficient end capped acceptors through chemical bond.
This can be brought successfully by choosing appropriate electron donor and withdrawing parts13.
Two imperative classes of non-fullerene acceptors have come under study recently such as Perylene diimide (PDI)14,15 and fused ring electron acceptors (FREAs)16.
PCEs up to 9% have been reported in OSCs with PDI non fullerene acceptor.
On the other hand, OSCs retaining non-covalently fused ring electron acceptors (NC-FREAs)17 configuration have fascinating properties because of their easy structural modulation18,19, strong optical absorption and enhanced PCE up to 14%20.
Among FREAs, the most successful and widely discussed non fullerene acceptors type is ITIC21 with ladder type indacenodithienothiophene as a central core and with A–D–A type architecture enabling BHJ layer to enhance charge mobility.
In comparison to traditional fullerene-based acceptor, ITIC types OSCs retain PCE up to 13%22.
Considering the attractive qualities of fused ring non-fullerene acceptors based OSCs, seven new A–D–A type NC-FREAs (MD2–MD8) from parent DOC2C6-2F were designed.
End capped acceptor modifications has been brought about in reference chromophore and their impact on the electronic and optical behavior of newly designed chromophores are studied.
For this, DOC2C6-2F27 is selected to be used as a parent molecule comprised of central ladder-like 1,4-bis((2-ethylhexyl)peroxy)benzene core unit linked with donor (D) moiety along with two terminal electron capturing acceptor (A) components.
In order to overcome the steric hinderance and computational cost caused by long alkyl chains in DOC2C6-2F, C8H17O substituted on the donor unit is replaced with methyl (–CH3) group as shown in Fig. 1.
We changed the terminal acceptors of DOC2C6-2F with various well known end capped acceptors just to explore and boost the electronic properties of OSCs.
In MD2, a decline in Eg (1.792 eV) is found due to the introduction of thiophene ring and replacement of fluoro (–F) with chloro (–Cl) groups at the terminal acceptor moieties34.
The smallest Eg (1.571 eV) is noted for MD3 among all the designed compounds in which the –Cl are altered with strong electron-withdrawing nitro (–NO2) groups at the acceptor parts.
A slight enhancement in HOMO/LUMO band gap (1.779 eV) is expressed by MD5 as compared to –CF3 because of the exchange of –CF3 with methyl acetate (–COOCH3) at the acceptor units.
The highest Eg (1.988 eV) is found for MD7 among all the designed molecules because of the removal of one fragment (pthalonitrile) of the acceptor moieties.
Eg (1.940 eV) of MD8 is retrieved to be less than the MD7, because of the incorporation of a thiophene ring at the peripheral acceptor units.
Lowest Eg between the orbitals and efficient charge mobility from donor to end capped acceptors is inspected in MD3 chromophore as compared to all other investigated chromophores which appeared to be an effective photovoltaic material.Figure 4The FMOs (HOMOs & LUMOs) of the MR1 and MD2–MD8 drawn with the help of Avogadro software, Version 1.2.0.
To predict the charge transfer path, we partitioned our compounds into two sections i.e., central donating core (D) and terminal acceptors (A).
5 that electronic cloud is distributed around HOMO and LUMO because of strong electron pulling character of terminal acceptor groups.
Similarly, to LUMO donor contributes 97.1, 97.2, 97.1, 97.1, 97.2, 97.2 and 97% to HOMO while 8.2, 7.6, 8.4, 8.2, 8, 11.5 and 8.4% to LUMO in MD2–MD8, correspondingly.
While acceptor contribution is 2.9, 2.8, 2.9, 2.9, 2.8, 2.8 and 3% to HOMO, while to LUMO 91.8, 92.4, 91.6, 91.8, 92, 88.5 and 91.6% for MD2–MD8, respectively.
Similarly, LUMOs are majorly resided on the acceptor moiety in aforesaid chromophores with higher peak at 1.5 eV.
Overall, the separation pattern of charge distribution reveals that huge amount of charge is shifted in MD3 from donor towards acceptor moieties proving it to be most favorable candidate for non-fullerene OSCs applications.
Electron (λe) mobility has an association with anionic geometry while hole in acceptor material is represented by cationic geometry.
Mainly, \documentclass[12pt]{minimal} 				\usepackage{amsmath} 				\usepackage{wasysym}  				\usepackage{amsfonts}  				\usepackage{amssymb}  				\usepackage{amsbsy} 				\usepackage{mathrsfs} 				\usepackage{upgreek} 				\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} 				\begin{document}$$\lambda$$\end{document}λ represents the charge transfer from donor to acceptor unit42.
Reference compound MR1 exhibit lower reorganization energy of electron (λe) indicating the higher electron transport abilities between donor and acceptor part.
To attain better Voc, LUMO value of acceptor should be greater as compared to HOMO of donor moiety as it lowers band gap47.
Here in this manuscript, we related the results of LUMO of our tailored molecules with the HOMO of renowned polymer PBDB-T48 having − 4.936 eV as EHOMO of donor polymer and results are summarized in Fig. 7.
The computed Voc value of compound MD3 is 0.99 V. The Voc of MR1 with regards to HOMOdonor–LUMOMR1 is 1.436 V. MD7 showed the highest Voc (1.499 V).
The decreasing order of Voc of designed chromophores with respect to HOMOdonor–LUMOacceptor is MD7 > MD8 > MR1 > MD2 > MD5 > MD4 > MD6 > MD3.
Herein, we reported our all-designed molecules which are of acceptor nature and are used in making bulk heterojunction devices by blended with polymer (PBDB-T) of donor type.
When a complex of donor–acceptor formed we found that our all-designed chromophores have low energy of LUMO in comparison to LUMO of donor polymer.
So, there will be a better transition from HOMO of donor polymer to the low lying LUMO of our designed molecules in comparison to the LUMO of donor polymer with more knocking out of electrons and thus enhanced efficiencies.
This analysis gives a pictorial display of interactions between donor and acceptor entities in excited state51 with three dimensional plots having sufficient color differentiation i.e., blue region displays52.
To simplify the calculations in our present report, we categorized all structures (MR1 and MD2–MD8) into two different areas i.e., donor (D) and acceptor (A).
From TDM diagrams, it is evident that electron coherence is largely present on end capped acceptor portions as compared to donor entity.
According to the results obtained from TDM heat maps, it has been observed that the electronic charge is efficiently transferred in diagonal way from the donor towards acceptor in all derivatives without trapping, showing a charge coherence.
This makes clear that, donor and end-capped acceptor units efficiently donate and withdraw the electron density respectively.
This might be due to the presence of strong electron withdrawing nitro (–NO2) group at acceptor units.
By performing structural modification in reference molecule (MR1) by end-capped acceptor moieties, seven new compounds (MD2–MD8) are designed.
Binding energy (Eb) of designed systems is smaller than MR1 molecule, that elucidated the greater exciton dissociation rate, results in high-power conversion efficiency of fullerene free acceptor groups in OSCs.
In order to visualize the designing of non-fullerene acceptor type chromophores and for the featuring of DFT based calculations, Gauss View 5.059 was utilized.
As a result, when the polymer is combined with a typical nonfullerene acceptor Y6, power conversion efficiencies of reaching 16% and V OCs of more than 0.84 V are observed, both of which are among the top values reported so far for “halogen‐free” polymers.
Tremendous efforts have been devoted to the development of π‐conjugated polymers for use as p‐type and n‐type (i.e., donor and acceptor) semiconducting materials toward the goal of improving the performance of organic photovoltaics (OPVs) in the last few decades.
[  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4  ] With the emergence of nonfullerene acceptors in place of fullerene acceptors,[  5 ,  6 ,  7  ] OPVs that use π‐conjugated polymers as the electron donor have recently been shown to demonstrate power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) in excess of 18%.
[  19 ,  20 ,  21  ] These findings suggest that thiazole‐based fused rings have great advantages over other building units for donor polymers, as halogenation, particularly fluorination, requires additional synthetic steps under severe cryogenic conditions with relatively low reaction yields, resulting in higher synthetic costs.
As a result, PTBTz2 exhibited improved photovoltaic performance with PCEs as high as 15.9% by using Y6 as the acceptor material.
Here, it is important to note that the observed V OC values (0.84–0.89 V) are mostly the same as or higher than those of the cells using polymers with halogen groups as strong electron‐withdrawing substituents (e.g., PM6) (Figure S22 and Table S12, Supporting Information) and an acceptor material having a similar bandgap with Y6.
Notably, however, the backbone order is somewhat reduced as a result of blending with the acceptor material.
These polymers showed deep HOMO energy levels even without halogen groups that are often introduced as substituents in high‐performance polymers, which resulted in high V OCs of more than 0.84 V in the OPV cell combined with Y6 as the acceptor.
Here, we show a polymer acceptor-doping general strategy and report a thermally stable bulk heterojunction photovoltaic system, which exhibits an improved power conversion efficiency of 15.10%.
Notably, the use of polymer acceptor as a dual function additive in the other four photovoltaic systems was also confirmed, demonstrating the good generality of this polymer-doping strategy.Thermal instability is a critical bottleneck for bulk heterojunction organic solar cells.
use barely 1 wt% of a polymer acceptor as an additive to simultaneously improve the device efficiency and thermal stability of several state-of-the-art organic photovoltaic systems at high temperatures.
Particularly, non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) have been successfully applied to high-performance OSCs and have shown promising development in the past few years6–8.
The power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of over 16% have been reported for non-fullerene OSCs based on donor polymers9–11.
However, the optimized blend morphology, known as a thermally activated metastable state, is generally sensitive to high-temperature aging13,21, and easily moves toward a thermodynamic equilibrium state and thus forms a large phase separation, significantly reducing donor–acceptor (D–A) interfacial area and device efficiency22,23.
For instance, storing the blend film of polymer donor PTB7-Th (poly[4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophen-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b;4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-(4-(2-ethylhexyl)-3-fluorothieno[3,4b]thiophene-)-2-carboxylate-2-6-diyl)]) and fullerene acceptor PCBM (phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester) in a 140 °C oven for 2 h induces the formation of numerous clusters, reducing the device efficiency by ~80%24.
We hypothesize that relevant conformational changes of interpenetrating networks between host donor and acceptor materials via introduction of semicrystalline conjugated polymers as additives can be suppressed at elevated temperatures.
Optimized BTTT-2Cl-based devices show a PCE of up to 13.83% by incorporating the commercially available polymer donor PM6 (as illustrated in Fig. 1a)44.
Adding a small amount (1 wt%) of semicrystalline photovoltaic polymer acceptor PZ145 into the PM6:BTTT-2Cl host blend improved the crystalline morphology of active layer and enhanced its charge transport property, achieving a PCE of 15.10%.
Besides, the use of PZ1 employed as the dual function additive for improving photovoltaic efficiency and thermal stability was also confirmed in other four commonly used photovoltaic systems, suggesting that the polymer acceptor PZ1 is a universal solid additive for highly thermal-stable OSC applications.Fig.
1Chemical structures, material characterizations, and blend morphologies.a Molecular structures of small-molecule acceptor BTTT-2Cl, polymer donor PM6, and acceptor additive PZ1.
a Molecular structures of small-molecule acceptor BTTT-2Cl, polymer donor PM6, and acceptor additive PZ1.
The chemical structures of the synthesized NFA material, BTTT-2Cl, and the polymer donor PM6 and acceptor-additive PZ1 are shown in Fig. 1a.
Here we introduced PZ1 acceptor as solid additives into the host blend for improving its device performance (Supplementary Figs.
Incorporating polymer acceptor PZ1 with long alkyl side chains into the PM6:BTTT-2Cl blend can form a strong framework and also inhibit BTTT-2Cl aggregation and crystallization.
The Eg value is determined by the broader optical absorption spectra of donor or acceptor in the film.
The Eg value is determined by the broader optical absorption spectra of donor or acceptor in the film.
Using polymer PM6 as the donor, we systematically evaluated the photovoltaic properties of PM6:BTTT-2Cl solar cells with a PCE of 13.80%.
We further introduced a polymer acceptor PZ1 employed as a dual functional solid additive.
The addition of 1 wt% PZ1 not only enhances π–π stacking and aggregation of BTTT-2Cl acceptors promoting device efficiency up to 15.10% but also dramatically enhances its thermal stability at high temperatures.
Importantly, based on the analysis of the other four photovoltaic systems, our results demonstrate that the use of polymer acceptor PZ1 as a dual function additive is a simple and general doping strategy for simultaneously improving photovoltaic performance and thermal stability of OSCs.
Alternatively, silicon phthalocyanines (R2-SiPc) are inexpensive, industrially scalable organic semiconductors, having a minimal synthetic complexity (SC) index, and are capable of producing high voltages when used as acceptors in OPVs.
Recently, a few research groups have used simple and low-cost small molecules as non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) in OPVs, and achieved Voc ≥ 1.0 V12,21–24.
Axially substituted silicon phthalocyanines (R2-SiPc) are ideal candidates for low-cost, high- Voc acceptor materials24,26,27.
The synthetic complexity (SC) index41 of R2-SiPcs have been calculated to be at least three times lower (SC = 12)27 than that of several prominent OPV acceptors materials, such as PC61BM (SC = 36)42, Y6 (SC = 59)43 and ITIC (SC = 67)44.
Nonetheless, there are relatively few reports investigating the use of R2-SiPc as stand-alone acceptors in OPVs24,26,27.
therefore it is vital to investigate pairing these cost-effective molecules with different donor polymers and optimizing these devices to exploit their full potential in OPVs.
The OPVs were optimized and yielded devices with a high Voc of 1.05 V, while maintaining 80% of the overall PCE, when compared to a fullerene-based analogue.Figure 1(a) Chemical structure of donor and acceptor materials; (b) energy level diagram of the device components; and (c) schematic representation of device architecture.
(a) Chemical structure of donor and acceptor materials; (b) energy level diagram of the device components; and (c) schematic representation of device architecture.
1c) were fabricated by combining PTB7 (donor) with (3BS)2-SiPc (acceptor, Fig. 1a).
The optimized parameters were spin-rate, annealing, donor:acceptor ratio and choice of solvent.
Parameters including spin-rate, annealing time and temperature, donor:acceptor ratio, and choice of solvent were all investigated.
In summary, we found that the (3BS)2-SiPc:PTB7 blend is fairly invariant to spin rate, acceptor:donor ratio and annealing conditions.
The high voltages can be attributed to the large difference between the energy levels of the donor’s highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the acceptor’s lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO), as illustrated in Fig.
Table 2 compares the series and shunt resistances of our optimized device 12 with literature-based devices containing either PTB7 or P3HT as the donor and PC61BM or (3BS)2-SiPc as the acceptor.
This may be ascribed to the small energy level offset only 0.2–0.3 eV between the donor and acceptor, which could be impairing the dissociation of excitons at the PTB7:(3BS)2-SiPc interface1.
We paired PTB7, a high performing donor polymer, with a low cost and easy to synthesize acceptor (3BS)2-SiPc in OPVs and observed a significant improvement in Voc values.
Device performance was robust to changes in the spin speed, acceptor:donor ratio and annealing; although this hinders a route towards device optimization, it is ultimately a desirable property for high throughput fabrication of OPVs.
When replacing the fullerene acceptor with (3BS)2-SiPc, 80% of the overall device efficiency was retained, while a high average Voc of 1.05 V was otained.
These findings further establish SiPc-based acceptors as promising NFA candidates for high voltage OPV devices.
UV–Vis spectroscopy of the P3AT solids was performed using dilute solutions, pristine films, and acceptor blend films of well-defined MW.
Therefore, P3ATs with shorter chains may exhibit higher miscibility with the acceptors before annealing.
However, because of the very strong acceptor blending-induced quenching and consequently low PLQYs, the quality of the steady-state PL spectra is insufficient and cannot be discussed in more detail.
Therefore, it can be expected that the acceptor blended solid states of P3BT may be more homogenously dispersed than those of the P3HTs and the P3OTs, which can prevent the formation of well-defined charge carrier-generating interfaces and transport channels for charges according to their polarities by the means of proper phase separation.
In summary, highly electron-rich donor–donor type polymers with the different carbazole connectivity patterns, i.e., 3,6-Cbz-EDOT and 2,7-Cbz-EDOT, were synthesized by the Pd-catalyzed Stille polycondensation.
Formation of complex iodoplumbate species, such as PbI3– and PbI42–, has already been tracked in a typical synthetic solution environment by many studies, mainly by means of UV–vis spectroscopy,11,33,35,40,41,48 highlighting how these species are preferentially produced in a low coordinating solvent environment, that is, following the general trend ACN > GBL > DMF > DMSO well described by the increasing Gutmann’s donor number with the corresponding values of 14.1, 18.0, 26.6, and 29.8 kcal/mol, respectively.34,49 In this sense, being transparent to UV and visible radiations because of its large optical energy gap,50−53 water is an ideal solvent to explore the spectroscopic properties of iodoplumbates in a spectral range larger than those accessible with the solvents commonly employed for the synthesis of perovskites.
This is interesting if we only consider the low donor number of water (18.0 kcal/mol),49 for which a favorable formation of iodoplumbates would be expected, confirming the uncertainties that affect this quantity when it comes to protic solvents and suggesting, at the same time, that other factors such as the high polarity of water molecules and the strong solvation of I– are acting on these complex equilibria.
Interestingly, these absorptions are quite different from those found for iodoplumbates in organic solvents, such as GBL, for which the absorption maxima lie around 330, 370, and 423 nm for PbI2, PbI3–, and PbI42–, respectively.33,34,41,48 This behavior is unexpected if one only considers Gutmann’s donor number (D.N.
The difference between the optical properties of iodoplumbates in water and organic solvents is indicative that such properties are highly dependent on both the coordination number and donor strength of the solvent.
Increasing the solvent donor strength at a fixed number of coordinated solvent molecules (n = 2, n = 3) in Pb2+(solv)n complexes leads, on the other hand, to an absorption red shift, see Figure S5, Supporting Information.
As a polar protic solvent, water better solvates anions than polar aprotic solvents through hydrogen bonding.93,94 This can also be seen from the Mayer’s acceptor number (A.N.
Compared to other common solvents for perovskite precursors as DMSO, DMF, GBL and ACN, water turns out to be an interesting exception: because of its poor ability to solvate PbI2 and its modest donor number, it cannot be classified as a strongly coordinating solvent to lead ions; nevertheless, it is also difficult to produce iodide-rich iodoplumbates because of the high polarity of water molecules and to the preferential solvation of I– compared to other solvents.
Water is then a very peculiar solvent for the PbI2 + MAI system and an exception to the low donor number/low coordination correlation usually found for organic solvents commonly employed for the synthesis of perovskites.
Specifically, the active layer of bulk-heterojunction OPVs typically consisted of electron-donor (p-type) and electron-acceptor (n-type) semiconductors7,8, with polymer-based single bulk-heterojunction OPVs achieving power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of up to 12%9–14.
1,4,5,8,9,11-hexaazatriphenylene hexacarbonitrile (HATCN6), am organic electron-acceptor, was used for hole injection layer from the metal anode, and 1,1-bis-(4-bis(4-tolyl)-aminophenyl)cyclohexene (TAPC) was used as a hole-transport layer.
OPV prepared from this method have shown great efficiency by reaching 4% [8], however, this method have so far only proven efficient on one donor–acceptor pair.
The particle size also influences the overall domain size of donor and acceptor assuming a core–shell structure [15] and therefore greatly influences the efficiency of the prepared devices [24].
Moreover, the electron transfer rate at heterostructure interfaces depends on the relative orientation between the donor and acceptor molecules.
Molecular orientation affects the dynamical charge transfer rate at the interface56 because the electronic-coupling between the donor and acceptor molecules depends strongly on their relative orientations.
The smaller number of acceptor states in graphene would result in the lower transfer rate even though the ZnPc/graphite and ZnPc/graphene should have similar interfacial structure.
Discovery of an efficient, practical, and flexible synthetic method to produce various important electron acceptors for low-cost organic photovoltaics (OPVs) is highly desirable.
Although the most commonly used acceptor materials, such as PC61BM, PC71BM, IC60BA, bisPC61BM have been proved to be promising for the OPVs, they are still very expensive mainly due to their low production yields and limited synthetic methods.
Notably, the standard OPV acceptors, such as PCBMs, have been obtained in extraordinarily high yields, which cannot be achieved under the previously reported methods.
Functional fullerenes have been used broadly as excellent n-type semiconductors in solution processable organic electronics12345, especially as the unique electron acceptors for organic photovoltaics (OPVs) due to their significant increase in solubility while preserving certain electronic and optical properties of pristine fullerenes678.
At present, the state-of-the-art of OPVs have an overall power conversion efficiency approaching 10%91011 based on newly developed low bandgap electron donors and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PC61BM) or its C70 analogue PC71BM as an electron acceptor121314 which are the most well-demonstrated benchmark acceptors for testing new donor materials in terms of their miscibility, solubility, and high electron mobility1516.
However, the standard acceptors PCBM, ICBA, and their analogues are still very expensive due to low yields, low selectivities, and harsh synthetic conditions.
Therefore, development of an innovative, practical synthetic method for those important fullerene acceptors under mild conditions with high production yields is highly desirable.
These results led us to challenge the innovative, flexible synthetic method for those most common fullerene acceptors in very high yields.
This result encouraged us to synthesize bisPCBM which has also been applied as a promising acceptor in OPVs21.
Since the Voc of bulk heterojunction solar cells has an association with the energy difference between the LUMO of acceptor and the HOMO of donor39, it is expected that the new biscycloadducts possessing higher LUMO energies should be potential acceptor candidates for OPVs.
Notably, we have succeeded for the first time in synthesis of the most common OPV acceptors, such as PC61BM, PC71BM, IC60BA, and bisPC61BM in good to excellent yields.
Here, the synthesis and characterization of four novel arylamine‐based push‐pull molecular donors was described, two of them exhibiting a methyl group at the para‐position of the external phenyl ring of the arylamine block.
Assessing the charge‐transfer state properties and the effects of methylation on the open‐circuit voltage of the device showed that devices based on methylated versions of the molecular donors exhibited reduced voltage losses due to decreased non‐radiative recombination.
Modelling suggested that methylation resulted in a tighter interaction between donor and acceptor molecules, turning into a larger oscillator strength to the charge‐transfer states, thereby ensuing reduced non‐radiative decay rates.
Quantum‐chemical calculations attribute this effect to the increase of the oscillator strength of the electronic transition between the donor and acceptor.
Over the past few years, organic solar cells (OSCs) have seen a rapid increase in their performance, approaching other thin‐film technologies: Recent progress in the development of non‐fullerene acceptors (NFAs) allowed to push the power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) above 18 %.
Overall, the V oc of OSCs is dictated by several factors: the optical gap (E g opt) of the light‐absorbing materials, the energy of the intermolecular charge‐transfer (CT) state at the donor‐acceptor interface (E CT), radiative voltage losses from the CT state (ΔV r), and non‐radiative voltage losses (ΔV nr).
The energy difference between the lowest excited singlet state of either the donor (D) or the acceptor (A) and their corresponding CT state is referred to as driving force.
Radiative recombination is the reverse process to absorption and is thus an unavoidable, fundamental loss channel; [13]  it is however possible to minimize those losses, for example by reducing the interface between donor and acceptor molecules [14]  or by carefully selecting materials with reduced electron‐phonon coupling or improved exciton dissociation.
[ 18 ,  19 ] In this context, small push‐pull D‐π‐A molecules where an electron‐donating block is connected to an electron‐accepting group through a π‐conjugated spacer have been widely investigated as promising donor materials in OPV.
[ 20 ,  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  24 ,  25 ] For example, high‐efficiency vacuum‐processed OSCs using 2‐[(7‐(4‐[N,N‐bis(4‐methylphenyl)amino]phenyl)‐ 2,1,3‐benzothia‐diazol‐4‐yl)methylene]propane‐dinitrile (DCDCPB) and its thiophenic analogue 2‐((7‐(5‐(dip‐tolylamino)thiophen‐2‐ yl)benzo[c][1,2,5]thiadiazol‐4‐yl)methylene (DTDCTB) donors were reported, showing exceptionally long exciton diffusion lengths (see the Supporting Information, Figure S1).
[ 26 ,  27 ,  28 ] In these push‐pull molecules, a benzothiadiazole (BTZ) π‐spacer connects the dicyanovinyl (DCV) electron‐acceptor block to two different arylamine‐based donor blocks exhibiting two methyl groups at the para‐positions of the two external phenyl rings.
They display a BTZ π‐spacer connecting a DCV electron‐acceptor block to four different arylamine‐based donor blocks.
Finally, a methyl group has been introduced at the para‐position of the external phenyl ring of the donor blocks, resulting in derivatives Me‐MPA and Me‐MTA, respectively.
We have investigated the performance of these push‐pull molecules as donor materials with C60 as acceptor in OSCs.
Using a fully evaporated model system, we have focused on how methylation at the para‐position of the external phenyl ring of the arylamine donor block affects the V oc of the devices.
The donor building blocks are highlighted in green.
As expected for push‐pull D‐π‐A systems, the UV/Vis absorption spectra of the investigated molecules in solution (in CH2Cl2) mainly exhibit an intense and broad absorption band in the visible range attributed to an intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) from the donor to the electron‐withdrawing moiety (Figure 2).
Photovoltaic fingerprints of investigated devices (30 nm donor:C60, 1 : 1 weight ratio).
On the other hand, the V oc is increased for both methylated donors by roughly 50 mV, which could be explained by (1) decrease of E CT or (2) reduced voltage losses.
Reduced EQEPV and EL spectra of devices based on (a,b) MPA and Me‐MPA and (c,d) MTA and Me‐MTA donor molecules, respectively.
50 mV for the devices based on methylated donor molecules.
Both methods show the same trend of decreasing ΔV nr upon methylation of the donor molecule.
Device, donor
In order to determine which parameters are the most relevant for reducing non‐radiative voltage losses, we perform quantum‐chemical calculations at the density functional theory (DFT) level to assess the intramolecular reorganization energy λ upon charging the two donors, MTA and Me‐MTA, and the C60 acceptor.
For the C60 molecule, we find a λ − of 89 meV, while the two donors show similar relaxation energies λ + of 137 meV for MTA and 135 meV for Me‐MTA.
Namely, as shown in Figure 6, a cluster of C60 molecules was built around a single MTA (Me‐MTA) donor and each D : C60 pair is optimized at the DFT level (see Computational methods for further details).
Different representations of the cluster of C60 molecules (cue balls in grey) around the MTA donor.
It is interesting to have a closer look at configuration entry 2 in Table 3, as this provides the largest difference in oscillator strength between MTA and Me‐MTA donors.
Figure 7 shows that the presence of the additional methyl group on the aromatic ring tends to bend the molecule over the C60 acceptor in order to maximize π‐π interactions.
This results in a more intimate interaction of the donor molecule with C60 that translates into a slightly larger contribution from the aromatic amine moiety of the donor to the transition density (seen as the green isosurface in Figure 7).
The larger wave function overlap manifested by the transition density distribution turns into a larger oscillator strength and, according to the model proposed by Azzouzi et al., [17]  accounts for reduced non‐radiative voltage losses in OPV devices based on methylated versions of the molecular donors.
We study a model system based on novel push‐pull, donor‐π‐acceptor molecules, used as donors in organic solar cells (OSCs) with C60 as acceptor.
We find that adding methyl groups to the donor molecule increases the open‐circuit voltage (V oc) of the device.
While the amount of radiative voltage losses remains unaffected by the modification of the donor, the non‐radiative voltage losses are reduced by about 50 mV.
From quantum‐chemical calculations, we find that main reason for the reduction of non‐radiative voltage losses is an increase in the oscillator strength of the electronic transition, associated with a more intimate interaction at the molecular scale between donor and acceptor molecules.
All provided materials were tested as donors against C60 fullerene acceptor (CreaPhys GmbH), incorporated in a p‐i‐n (standard) device architecture, using molybdenum oxide (MoO3) (Sigma Aldrich) and bathophenanthroline (BPhen) (Lumtec), as hole‐ and electron‐transporting layers (HTL and ETL), respectively.
Geometries were optimized using a range‐separated hybrid functional as ωB97X‐D, [41]  along with the 6‐31g(d) basis set, keeping the donors molecular soft degrees of freedom (dihedral angles) frozen, as to account only for the contribution from high‐frequency modes, as described elsewhere.
A tetra‐brominated non‐fullerene acceptor, designated as BTIC‐4Br, has been recently developed by introducing bromine atoms onto the end‐capping group of 2‐(3‐oxo‐2,3‐dihydro‐1H‐inden‐1‐ylidene) malononitrile and displayed a high power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 12%.
To further improve its photovoltaic performance, the acceptor is optimized either by introducing a longer alkyl chain to the core or by modulating the numbers of bromine substituents.
After changing each end‐group to a single bromine, the BTIC‐2Br‐m‐based devices exhibit an outstanding PCE of 16.11% with an elevated open‐circuit voltage of V oc = 0.88 V, one of the highest PCEs reported among brominated non‐fullerene acceptors.
This significant improvement can be attributed to the higher light harvesting efficiency, optimized morphology, and higher exciton quenching efficiencies of the di‐brominated acceptor.
These results demonstrate that the substitution of bromine onto the terminal group of non‐fullerene acceptors results in high‐efficiency organic semiconductors, and promotes the use of the halogen‐substituted strategy for polymer solar cell applications.The bromination of non‐fullerene acceptors provides a promising alternative approach for the creation of high‐performance organic solar cells.
BTIC‐2Br‐m‐based devices exhibit an outstanding power conversion efficiency of 16.11% with an elevated open circuit voltage of 0.88 V, representing one of the highest efficiencies in brominated non‐fullerene acceptors.
Solution‐processed bulk heterojunction (BHJ) organic solar cells (OSCs) based on the p‐type conjugated polymer donors and the n‐type semiconductor acceptors have attracted enormous attention due to the unique advantages they provide for the fabrication of low‐cost and flexible devices.
[ 9, 10, 11, 12 ] In terms of high‐efficiency acceptor materials, fullerene derivatives have dominated the field for electron acceptors with a PCE >11% in previous years.
[ 13, 14 ] However, non‐fullerene acceptors have recently emerged as promising candidates owing to their efficient light absorption in the visible region to the near‐infrared region and easily‐tunable energy levels,[ 15, 16, 17, 18 ] which have greatly enhanced the photovoltaic performance, resulting in a PCE over 16%.
To date, few studies have investigated the use of bromination in non‐fullerene small molecule acceptors, despite the fact that it results in a comparable or a superior photovoltaic performance compared with the fluorinated or chlorinated analogues.
recently reported on a novel efficient fluorinated acceptor, Y6, containing a ladder‐type electron‐deficient‐core‐based central fused ring, which boosted the PCE of organic solar cells by up to 15.7%.
obtained a higher PCE of over 16% by replacing the fluorine atom of the Y6 acceptor with chlorine atoms.
A series of brominated acceptors were designed and synthesized by either introducing the longer alkyl chain to the core or by modulating the numbers of bromine substituents, designated as BTIC‐BO‐4Br and BTIC‐2Br‐m.
This result indicates the great potential of bromination in promoting the photovoltaic performance of small molecular acceptors.
The chemical structures and synthetic routes of the acceptors have been shown in Scheme 1 while details of synthesis have been provided in the Supporting Information.
Polymer PBDB‐TF was used as a donor with a number‐average molecular weight (M n) of 48.0 kDa and a polydispersity index of 2.41.
The small molecular acceptors were purified using column chromatography on silica gel with chloroform as the eluent, coupled with a preparative high‐performance liquid chromatography.
With four bromine atoms on the end‐groups, the corresponding acceptor, BTIC‐4Br, showed a relatively limited solubility in chlorobenzene and chloroform.
As shown in Figure S1, Supporting Information, the distance of S—O was 2.67 Å in a single BTIC‐BO‐4Br molecule, endowing this arc‐like acceptor with a very good planarity in terms of its single molecular configuration.
This eventually formed a 3D interpenetrating network, which may be beneficial for the transportation of charge carriers in the acceptor (Figure S3, Supporting Information).
To evaluate the optical properties of the brominated acceptors, the ultraviolet‐visible (UV–vis) absorption spectra of the three acceptors in a chloroform solution and thin films were recorded.
Compared to the absorption spectra recorded in solution, the bathochromic shifts of 79, 76, and 86 nm in the film state for BTIC‐4Br, BTIC‐BO‐4Br, and BTIC‐2Br‐m, respectively, indicated the strong molecular aggregation and the π–π interactions of the acceptors in the film states.
In addition, when mixed with the donor PBDB‐TF (Figure 1c), the blend films based on the three small molecules exhibited a similar extinction coefficient of about 6.70 × 104 cm−1 at 628 nm, which was mainly the result of the donor PBDB‐TF.
Calculated absorption spectra of BTIC‐4Br, BTIC‐BO‐4Br and BTIC‐2Br‐m a) in solution, b) in films, c) in the blend films with donor PBDB‐TF.
However, BTIC‐2Br‐m showed the highest V oc among the three acceptors.
Moreover, as shown in Figure 1d, the small HOMO offsets between PBDB‐TF and the three brominated acceptors (0.08–0.12 eV) implied that a small driving force was able to support the charge separation while maintaining a low energy loss.
Figure S5, Supporting Information shows the optimized molecular geometries and the orbital distributions of the acceptors.
These results were able to also predict a higher V oc when applying BTIC‐2Br‐m as an acceptor in the OSCs.
To investigate the photovoltaic performance of the brominated acceptors, the devices were fabricated with an inverted structure (ITO/ZnO/active layer/MoO3/Ag) using the polymer PBDB‐TF as the donor in a chloroform solution.
As shown in Table S2, Supporting Information, the influence of the dissolution temperature on BTIC‐BO‐4Br and BTIC‐2Br‐m may be negligible if the acceptors had a sufficiently high solubility in the chloroform (CF) and chlorobenzene (CB) solvents.
To the best of our knowledge, the PCE obtained in this study (16.11%) had the highest value among the brominated acceptors in binary PSCs.
However, compared to the non‐brominated acceptor Y5 (6.15%, PBDB‐TF as the same donor; Table S10, Supporting Information), the brominated acceptors exhibited a significant potential to pump the efficiency of the non‐fullerene OSCs.
The integral current density of the EQE of BTIC‐2Br‐m‐based devices was 23.84 mA cm−2, which was higher than those of the devices based on other two acceptors (19.68 and 20.21 mA cm−2 for BTIC‐4Br, 23.13 mA cm−2 for BTIC‐BO‐4Br).
Photovoltaic properties of the optimized PSCs based on PBDB‐TF: acceptors under AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm−2 Illumination
To further investigate the effect of bromination on the exciton dissociation of the device based on the non‐fullerene acceptors, the charge dissociation probability (P (E, T) = J ph/J sat) values of the optimized PSCs were calculated by measuring the curves of the photo‐generated current density against the effective voltage.
The charge carrier mobilities of the blend films were measured using the space‐charge‐limited current (SCLC) model with single‐carrier devices consisting of ITO/ZnO/PBDB‐TF:acceptors/PDINO/Al for the electron mobility and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/PBDB‐TF:acceptors /MoO3/Ag for the hole mobility.
The excitation wavelength of the BTIC‐4Br, BTIC‐BO‐4Br, and BTIC‐2Br‐m acceptors was set at 820 nm based on their maximum absorptions.
The PL emission peaks of the pure acceptors appeared within the range of 850–1100 nm.
[ 55 ] Thereafter, we calculated the transient photovoltage (TPV) and transient photocurrent (TPC) of the devices to investigate their dynamics behavior based on the three brominated acceptors.
Figure 3d shows the charge carrier lifetime curves of the three brominated acceptor‐based devices in an open circuit.
e) Normalized transient photocurrent (TPC) of OSCs base on PBDB‐TF: acceptors.
When the dissolution temperature was increased to 50 °C, the excessive aggregations were separated and the miscibility of the donor and the acceptor improved, resulting in formation of relatively smaller aggregations (Figure 4b,f).
2D GIWAXS patterns of a) PBDB‐TF: BTIC‐4Br, b) PBDB‐TF: BTIC‐BO‐4Br, c) PBDB‐TF: BTIC‐2Br‐m blend films, d) GIWAXS linecuts of the out‐of‐plane direction in the PBDB‐TF:acceptors blend films.
In summary, a series of brominated acceptors, namely BTIC‐4Br, BTIC‐BO‐4Br, and BTIC‐2Br‐m, were designed and synthesized.
The OSCs based on BTIC‐2Br‐m exhibited a high PCE (16.11%), corresponding to the highest PCE of brominated end‐capped non‐fullerene acceptors reported for binary OSCs thus far.
Hence, the bromination of a non‐fullerene acceptor provides an alternative and promising strategy for achieving high‐performance OSCs.
In this study, the operation of donor/acceptor photovoltaic cells fabricated on homoepitaxially grown p-doped rubrene single-crystal substrates is demonstrated.
The photocurrent density is dominated by the sheet conductivity (σ□) of the p-type single-crystal layer doped to 100 ppm with an iron chloride (Fe2Cl6) acceptor.
Several donor (D)/Acceptor (A) junctions using organic single crystals, such as the epitaxial growth of C60 (A) on single-crystal pentacene (D) [6], the organic solar cell between a C60 film (A) and a rubrene single crystal (D) (exhibiting an efficiency of 0.01% [7]), and the organic solar cell between fluorinated (A) and non-fluorinated copper phthalocyanines (D) single-crystalline nanoribbons exhibiting an efficiency of 0.007% [8], were also investigated.
We then fabricated organic donor/acceptor (D/A) heterojunction photovoltaic cells on doped rubrene single-crystal substrates.
The structures of the donor/acceptor (D/A) photovoltaic cells fabricated on the p-doped organic single-crystal substrates are shown in Figure 1a with a diagram of the cell (Figure 1b).
A D/A heterojunction is formed between the p-doped single crystalline layer acting as the donor, while a C60 film (Figure 1a, red rectangular part) acts as an acceptor.
Doping was performed through co-evaporation with Fe2Cl6 (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.99%, Tokyo, Japan) [17,18] and Cs2CO3 (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.999%, Tokyo, Japan) [19,20] molecules used as the acceptor and donor dopants, respectively.
When using (Fe2Cl6) as an acceptor dopant, through electron transfer from the rubrene molecule to the acceptor molecule, a charge transfer (CT) state is produced (Figure S2c, right).
The opposite mechanism for donor (Cs2CO3) doping is also shown in Figure S2c.
Two binary BHJs with a common acceptor (or donor) are deposited sequentially in this kind of device.
Here, we study the fabrication and optimization of bilayer ternary solar cells using metal phthalocyanine donors and fullerene acceptor.
Binary bulk heterojunction (BHJ), which is a molecular scale mixture containing a donor and an acceptor, is used as the device structure in all these devices.
An additional component with complementary absorption spectra (donor D2 for donor D1 and acceptor A, or acceptor A2 for donor D and acceptor A1) was blended with a binary BHJ to form a ternary BHJ (shown in Figure 1a).
A record efficiency of more than 16% is reported by blending one nonfullerene acceptor into the mixture of a polymer and a fullerene derivative, and in a ternary BHJ device composing one polymer donor and two nonfullerene acceptors [9,10].
Furthermore, the working mechanism of ternary photovoltaic device may change partly due to the distribution style of the third component, including whether it is embedded in the donor or acceptor phase, located between the donor and acceptor phases, or co-crystallized with the donor or acceptor moiety.
Besides the common mechanism of exciton generation and dissociation in a single binary BHJ, some roles are proposed for governing charge transport across the interface in a bilayer ternary active layer as following: the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the same acceptor (A) in both binary BHJs acts as a continuous route for electron transport, whereas for hole transport, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of two polymers should have a suitable step to assist the hole extraction.
Two kinds of small molecule, zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc, Yannuo Chem., Beijing, China, purity 99%) and chloroaluminum phthalocyanine (ClAlPc, Yannuo Chem., Beijing, China, purity 99%), are used as the donors.
C60 (Yannuo Chem., Beijing, China, purity 99%) is used as the acceptor.
We use ClAlPc as both donor and cathode buffer material in this experiment.
We choose two donors, ZnPc and ClAlPc, and one acceptor, C60, to construct the bilayer ternary structure.
ZnPc and C60 are a common donor–acceptor pair with optical absorption in the visible band, and ClAlPc has an absorption peak in the near infrared band [22,23].
We have already shown that oblique angle deposition is an effective approach to improve the photovoltaic performance of BHJ devices with ZnPc as the donor [22].
Briefly, spontaneous phase segregation occurs in ZnPc:acceptor BHJ when ZnPc/ZnPc:acceptor layers are deposited on an obliquely placed ITO substrate, resulting in enhanced Jsc and efficiency.
Based on the structure drawn in Figure 1c, bilayer ternary active layer can be regarded as a special ternary blend, in which two donors reside on two sides of the interface while the acceptor disperses in the whole bilayer.
In addition to the functions of gas storage, CS-COF allows for complementary functionalization using the microporous space to crystallize counterpart fullerene molecules that can merge extended π conjugation with bicontinuous order into a donor–acceptor system (CS-COF⊂C60).
Similarly in OPV based on donor/acceptor (D-A) blends, the photogenerated singlet exciton in the polymer donor domains may recombine before reaching the D-A interface, because of its relatively short life time (~100 ps).
Alas, because the SOC in polymers is typically very weak, triplet excitons cannot be efficiently photogenerated in the donor polymers for OPV enhancement; and, similarly, cannot efficiently emit light in OLEDs.
We show that the system absorbs >95% of incident photons within the singlet fission material to form singlet excitons, which then undergo efficient singlet fission in the solution phase (135 ± 5%) before quantitative harvesting of the triplet excitons (95 ± 5%) via a low concentration of QD acceptors, followed by the emission of IR photons.
We find that in order to achieve efficient triplet harvesting it is critical to engineer the surface of the QD with a triplet transfer ligand and that bimolecular decay of triplets is potentially a major loss pathway which can be controlled via tuning the concentration of QD acceptors.
The IR PLQE of a photon multiplier, ηPM(λ), for excitation at wavelength λ, with singlet fission donor and emissive QD acceptor components can be expressed as181where ηQD is the intrinsic PLQE of the QD, μi is the attenuation coefficient, base 10, of the ith component, and ηTr is the total exciton transfer efficiency from the donor to acceptor.
We use the following kinetic model to describe the transfer of triplets from the TIPS-Tc to the PbS/TetCAL QDs23where T1 is the triplet density produced via singlet fission with an efficiency ηSF, X1 is the density of excited QD states, kT and k2 are the intrinsic and bimolecular decay rate constants for TIPS-Tc triplets, kTET is the triplet transfer rate to the PbS/TetCAL QDs, kX is the QD decay rate, and X0 is the concentration of the QD acceptor.
Applying this Stern–Volmer-like quenching model we extract a triplet transfer rate of kTET = 0.0039 ± 0.0001 (mg/mL)−1 μs–1 ((5.1 ± 0.1) × 108 M–1 s–1) and an intrinsic triplet lifetime of τT = 250 ± 180 μs.30 The reasonable agreement with a linear relation between TET rate and QD acceptor concentration indicates that the triplet transfer is diffusion limited, not kinetically limited.
Even in aqueous media, the blend and core-shell nanoparticles exhibited a greater light absorption capacity, and these conformations proved to be effective in the process of dissociation of excitons that occurs at the P3HT donor/PC71BM acceptor interface.
P3HT is an electron donor and PC61BM acts as an electron acceptor.
This BHJ allows effective dissociation of excitons at the donor/acceptor interface before the natural recombination process occurs, improving the efficiency of P3HT-only OPVs.
It should be noted that we are interested in a PCBM-based shell and not a P3HT-based shell since the PCBM is an electron acceptor.
As already mentioned, P3HT and PC71BM are organic semiconductors, such that P3HT is an electron donor and PC71BM is an electron acceptor.
With the inclusion of PC71BM, excitons formed in the polymeric chains of P3HT diffuse to the donor/acceptor interface, as depicted in Figure 7a.
Electrons are then transferred from the LUMO of the generating molecule to the LUMO of the acceptor molecule, while the holes remain in the HOMO of the donor material due to the potential barrier, as shown in Figure 7b.
As the electron transfer process between different materials occurs much faster (in the order of femtoseconds) than the recombination process within the donor material, a drastic decrease in the photoemission process is observed [49,50] and explains the PL quenching.
Equivalently, these conformations of NPs allow an effective transfer of electrons from the donor material to the acceptor even when the NPs are in an aqueous suspension.
The weight ratio of the polymer donor to nonfullerene acceptor in the bulk heterojunction is adjusted to realize the maximum NIR absorption enhancement, enabled by the AuNBPs‐induced LSPR, achieving the high‐performance ST‐OSCs with a high PCE of 13.15% and a high AVT of 25.9%.Semitransparent organic solar cells offer potentially more opportunities in areas of self‐powered greenhouses and building‐integrated photovoltaic systems.
Power conversion efficiency (PCE) of >18% has been realized for the OSCs using the blends of the low bandgap polymer and nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs), having good electron mobility, tunable energy levels, and an extended absorption in the near‐infrared (NIR) region.
The BHJ comprises a blend layer of poly[[4,8‐bis[5‐(2‐ethylhexyl)‐4‐fluoro‐2‐thienyl]benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene‐2,6‐diyl]‐2,5‐thiophenediyl[5,7‐bis(2‐ethylhexyl)‐4,8‐dioxo‐4H,8H‐benzo[1,2‐c:4,5‐c′]dithiophene‐1,3‐diyl]‐2,5‐thiophene diyl](PM6) polymer donor and an NFA 2,2'‐[[12,13‐bis(2‐butyloctyl)‐12,13‐dihydro‐3,9‐dinonylbisthieno[2″,3″:4′,5′] thieno[2′,3′:4,5]pyrrolo[3,2‐e:2′,3′‐g][2,1,3] benzothiadiazole‐2,10‐diyl]bis[methylidyne(5,6‐chloro‐3‐oxo‐1H‐indene‐2,1(3H)‐diylidene)]]bis[propanedinitrile] (BTP‐eC9).
The normalized absorption spectra of the donor PM6 (black curve) and the NFA BTP‐eC9 (blue curve) are shown in Figure  1a.
The LSPR peak position of the AuNBPs has been adjusted to match with the main absorption peak of BTP‐eC9, for taking the advantage of enhanced NIR absorption by the BTP‐eC9 acceptor molecules in the BHJ layer.
Moreover, the present study reveals the degree of polymerization and the true driving force at donor-acceptor interface in each analyzed organic photovoltaic device.
In organic photovoltaic devices, the bulk heterojunction active layer is built by a blend of electron donors, such as P3HT [4] or PM6 [5], and acceptors like PC71BM [6] or nanostructured material Y6 [7], forming an interpenetrating coarse-grained molecular network [8] whose donor-acceptor interfacial area plays a crucial role for the exciton diffusion and device PCE [9].
There is a driving force at such a donor-acceptor interface originated from the electron-affinity difference between donor and acceptor molecules.
In 1995, A. J. Heeger and collaborators introduced the concept of bulk heterojunction structures based on a network of donor-acceptor heterojunctions made of MEH-PPV:C60 composite and reported a PCE of 2.9% [12].
The efficiency of an organic photovoltaic device is sensitively dependent on the active layer morphology, whose structure can be divided into three sections in a polymer:fullerene bulk heterojunction: (1) a pure polymer region, (2) a pure fullerene region, and (3) donor:acceptor interface one [15].
An organic photovoltaic device based on bulk heterojunctions is built by a blend of two organic materials in its active layer: one works as an electron donor and the other as an electron acceptor.
Such an active layer is inserted in between the cathode and anode electrical contacts, which collect the dissociated electron and hole charge carriers from the donor-acceptor interface.
However, the electron-hole Coulomb attraction inhibits such dissociation and a proper choice of donor and acceptor molecules in organic solar cells creates a driving force to overcome the mentioned attraction.
Figure 1a shows a schematic sketch of the donor-acceptor interface in an organic solar cell, where Poly(3-hexylthiophene-2.5-diyl) or P3HT works as the electron donor while [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester or PC61BM acts as the electron acceptor.
The highest occupied and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energies of donor are represented by HOMOD and LUMOD, while those of acceptor are respectively denoted by HOMOA and LUMOA.
Before the photoexcited electron transfers to the acceptor side, these electron-hole pairs may recombine with a probability of Γ emitting a new photon [23,24].
The energy difference between LUMOD and LUMOA gives rise to a driving force (Δε), which favors the electron transfer to the acceptor side across the donor-acceptor interface.
Once the electron is found at the acceptor side while the hole still stays at the donor one, these charge carriers may move to the cathode and anode through two leads with the hopping integral t of Ne coarse-grained molecules for electrons and of Nh ones for holes.
The connection between the donor molecule (photocell) and the first molecule of escape lead for electrons and that for holes are respectively characterized by the hopping integrals te and th, as shown in Figure 1a.
For example, the left column (bottom row) in Figure 1b describes the hole (electron) movement along the escape lead, while its partner electron (hole) stays at the donor molecule.
The IQE of organic photovoltaic devices can be calculated in terms of the electron-hole recombination rate (Γ) and the effective self-energy at the impurity site U, Σ0 (E), when both the electron and the hole are found at the photocell or donor molecule.
The parameters used for each organic solar cell are summarized in Table 1, where the difference between the HOMOD and LUMOD energies (ε) at the photocell or donor molecule depends on, for example, the amount of monomer in the P3HT polymer when it acts as the photocell [34,35].
However, similar phenomenon has been reported for P3HT solar cells with TiOx ETL.19 One possible explanation is that the P3HT molecules are doped with oxygen when exposing to air, and the hole concentration is increased.20 The interfacial electrostatic force between the electron donor and acceptor layers is increased, resulting in a higher efficiency of exciton dissociation and therefore a rising PCE.
Herein, we present the photovoltaic properties of an indium phthalocyanine chloride (InClPc)-based flexible planar heterojunction device, introducing the tetrathiafulvene derivative 4,4′-Dimethyl-5,5′-diphenyltetrathiafulvalene (DMDP-TTF) as the electron donor layer.
Still, a challenge due to the limited exciton diffusion length is present, whereby mainly excitons within a short distance from the donor–acceptor interface can be dissociated [12,13].
Like most MPcs, InClPcs can be used as an electron acceptor in solar photovoltaic cells, and have been known to undergo electron-transfer reactions with strong electron donors such as tetrathiafulvalene (TTF) [38].
TTF and its derivatives have shown an electronic donor behavior, which plays an important charge transport role in electronic devices [39,40].
Thus, the use of TTF derivatives with this type of MPc for solar cells, which may allow better charge transport and optoelectronic properties than other donor materials, could solve the issues of a deficient exciton dissociation and charge carrier transport process on the active layer of an organic solar cell.
The main aim of the current work is to study the photovoltaic behavior of the active layer formed by the acceptor InClPc and the 4,4′-Dimethyl-5,5′-diphenyltetrathiafulvalene (DMDP-TTF).
The DMDP-TTF is a derivative of a TTF that has been very little studied as an electron donor film, and its incorporation could play a key role in solar cell devices.
For the device manufacturing, the following process was used (see Figure 1): InClPc and DMDP-TTF were deposited into separate boat sources for consecutive deposition, the InClPc was used as the electron acceptor layer and the DMDP-TTF as the electron donor layer, and the ITO was used as the anode while the conductive carbon (CC, Sigma-Aldrich, MO, USA) was used as the cathode and was deposited at the end of the process, in order to improve the charge carrier collection.
These energy peaks can result in a charge transfer ascribed to the transition from the donor DMDP-TTF to π-orbitals that are associated with the acceptor phthalocyanine or even with the same indium metal center.
In active layers formed by planar heterojunction, charge transport is generated at the donor–acceptor interface.
The increase in current is due to an increase in the photogenerated carrier’s concentration, a consequence of the active layer’s interaction with the incident light where absorption take place, resulting from the incident photon energy being larger than the band gap, which allows the electronic interaction of the donor–acceptor system, which is subsequently followed by the exciton’s dissociation at the interface [68].
The photovoltaic behavior of an active layer integrating InClPc and DMDP-TTF, used as acceptor and electronic donor species, respectively, was evaluated.
Four new D-A-π-A metal-free organic sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), with [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine as internal acceptor, thiophene unit as π-spacer and cyanoacrylate as anchoring electron acceptor, have been synthesized.
The donor moiety was introduced into [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine by nucleophilic aromatic substitution and Suzuki cross-coupling reactions, allowing design of D-A-π-A sensitizers with the donor attached to the internal heterocyclic acceptor not only by the carbon atom, as it is in a majority of DSSCs, but by the nitrogen atom also.
Although low values of power conversion efficiency (PCE) were found, a few important consequences were identified: (i) poor PCE data can be attributed to high electron deficiency of the internal [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine acceptor due to lower light harvesting by the dye; (ii) the manner in which the donor was attached to the internal acceptor (by carbon or nitrogen) did not play an essential role in the photovoltaic properties of the dyes; (iii) dyes based on the novel donor 2,3,4,4a,9,9a-hexahydro-1H-1,4-methanocarbazolyl and 9-(p-tolyl)-2,3,4,4a,9,9a-hexahydro-1H- carbazole moieties showed similar photovoltaic properties to dyes based on the well-known 4-(p-tolyl)-1,2,3,3a,4,8b-hexahydrocyclopenta[b]indolyl building block, which opens the door for further optimization potential of new dye families.
In the recent years, solution processable solar cells, including dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) [1,2,3,4], bulk heterojunction donor-acceptor blends [5,6], quantum dot solar cells [7,8], organic–inorganic hybrid perovskite solar cells [9,10,11], and tandem solar cells [12,13] have attracted much attention to in the search to produce low-cost electricity and portable energy.
Compared to D-π-A dyes, D-A-π-A sensitizers, where the auxiliary acceptor is inserted between the donor and the π-bridge, showed broadened absorption, optimized energy levels, enhanced stability, and efficient intramolecular charge transfer for high performance DSSCs [23].
However, so far, a deep understanding of the relationship between the structure of the internal acceptor group and the photovoltaic properties of the DSSCs is still lacking.
There are a few examples of D-A-π-A dyes where the donor moiety is attached to the acceptor by the nitrogen atom.
Comparison of the photovoltaic properties for two sensitizers of D-A-π-A structure, KM-11 [31] and D2 [32], (Figure 1) showed that there is no difference between them in photovoltaic efficiency, and the challenge to use a donor fragment attached by the nitrogen atom remains interesting.
The introduction of the N-donor fragment into benzene fused with thiadiazole or similar heterocycles does not look simple and promising, since it requires use of palladium-catalyzed Buchwald-Hartwig or the rarely employed Ullman strategy (compared with introduction of a C-donor by similar palladium-catalyzed Suzuki or Stille cross-couplings).
Recently, we reported the synthesis of the highly electron-deficient [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine building block, which was evaluated as one of the strongest electron-acceptor systems [33].
Taking into account the ease of introduction of N-nucleophiles into [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine by nucleophilic aromatic substitution, we aimed to design and prepare D-A-π-A sensitizers with the donor attached to the internal heterocyclic acceptor not only by the carbon atom, as it is in a majority of DSSCs, but by the nitrogen atom also.
It is known that an indoline group (in TIM1) has been proven to endow stronger electron-donating ability than other donor moieties, such as triphenylamine or carbazole [23].
We believed that introduction of similar cycloalkyl groups (such as hexahydrocarbazole in TIM2 and TIM4, and tetrahydromethanocarbazole in TIM3) would also increase the donor ability in the corresponding dyes.
Herein, the first few dyes using this new internal acceptor (Figure 2) were synthesized, characterized, and tested.
Secondly, the absorption bands between 520–560 nm were assigned to an intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) process between the donor and anchor/acceptor group, which produced an efficient charge-separated excited state.
We found that, for dyes in which the donor fragment is connected to the pyridazine ring by a nitrogen atom, both absorption maxima wavelengths differed only slightly.
The dye TIM4, in which the donor fragment was connected to the pyridazine cycle by a carbon atom, had a hypsochromic shift of the long-wavelength absorption maximum compared to the analogues with C–N bonds (TIM1–3).
In general, the extinction coefficients of all the dyes were low independently from the coupling motif of the donor group to the acceptor heterocycle.
The TIM4 compound, containing a C–C bond between the donor and the internal acceptor, has the lowest EgapCV value compared to the three other dyes TIM1–3 (−1.31 eV and −1.79 eV, −1.82 eV, respectively).
Such a significant decrease in energy between HOMO and LUMO is probably due to an increase in the conjugation chain in the TIM4 compound as compared to derivatives with C–N bonds, which is a consequence of the introduction of the p-tolyl substituent into the donor fragment.
In summary, we have designed four new D-A-π-A metal-free organic sensitizers with [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine as the internal acceptor, thiophene unit as the π-spacer, and cyanoacrylate as the anchoring electron acceptor.
Despite the variation of the donor fragment and manner of its attachment to the internal acceptor, low PCE data were measured for all dyes.
First of all, comparison of the PCE for TIM1–TIM3 drives us to conclude that there is no significant impact originating from the N-donor; they showed quite similar PCE values, with a slightly better result for the 2,3,4,4a,9,9a-hexahydro-1H-1,4-methanocarbazolyl moiety (TIM3).
Secondly, the comparison of PCE data for TIM2 and TIM4 showed practically identical values, indicating a small difference in attachment of the donor fragment to the internal acceptor moiety, which may open another interesting possibility for flexibility of the chemical structures of the dyes.
Finally, the relatively low performance suggests that the internal [1,2,5]thiadiazolo[3,4-d]pyridazine acceptor was responsible for poor PCE data due to lower light harvesting by the dye, which is not beneficial when designing D-A-π-A dyes for DSSCs.
We find that changing the energy levels of the donor significantly affects not only the transition rates between local-exciton (LE) and charge-transfer (CT) states, but also significantly changes the transition rates between CT and charge-separated (CS) states, challenging the commonly accepted picture of charge generation and recombination.
The advent of novel acceptor molecules propelled the power-conversion efficiencies of these devices to over 18%.
This efficiency improvement is attributed to efficient charge generation even at low offset between the donor and acceptor molecular energy levels.
From this study, we find that when reducing the energy offset between donor and acceptor, not only is the gap between the lowest exciton and the charge-transfer (CT) state energy reduced, but, so is the gap between the CT and charge-separated (CS) states.
Charge generation in organic solar cells is commonly accepted to proceed via the photogeneration of an exciton that is followed by its dissociation at the donor–acceptor heterointerface into a CT exciton which is finally dissociated into separate charges that deliver a photocurrent and which are denoted together by a charge-separated (CS) state.6,7 The charge generation efficiency thus depends on the difference in free energy between the lowest exciton (LE) state and the CT state or the CT and CS state,8–10 or more generally the free energy difference between lowest exciton and CS.11 Increasing these offsets comes at the expense of reducing the achievable open-circuit voltage (and therefore increasing voltage losses) for any given optical band gap.
recently showed that the yield of charge generation is rather strongly related to the ionisation energy offset between the donor and the acceptor.20 Kinetic zero-dimensional (0D) models are often used to quantify the impact of changing the energy offsets or the rates of dissociation and recombination on the device performances.9,13,20,21 Although the 0D kinetic models can explain to a certain extent the change in the charge generation efficiency and the voltage losses in the devices, even incorporating the equilibria between different state populations at open circuit,21 they do not account for the competition between the charge recombination and the charge extraction in the devices under operating conditions.
We apply the developed model to investigate the differences in the charge generation, collection, and recombination process in OPV devices where the energy offset between the ionisation potential (or the Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital (HOMO) energy) of the donor and acceptor is reduced by fluorinating the donor.
These results suggest that by reducing the energy offset (in this case by fluorination of the donor) for the initial charge separation process, we not only reduce the rate of LE state dissociation but also reduce the CT dissociation rate constant and increase the back-formation of CT states from free charge carriers.
Using the results of the case study we then explore the correlation between changing the HOMO energy of the donor and the free energy offsets between either the LE and CT states, or the CT to CS states.
Interestingly, we find that increasing the ionisation potential of the donor not only reduces the energy offset between the LE and the CT state, but it also reduces the free energy offset between the CT and CS state.
The charge carrier (electron and hole) transport and the electric field in the device are described by the drift-diffusion equations.34 The active layer representing the bulk heterojunction is an effective medium where the donor and acceptor are well mixed, meaning that the sites at which lowest exciton (LE) and CT states can localise are evenly distributed in the layer.
Following the generation of an exciton (volumetric rate G), the exciton either recombines with a first-order rate constant (kLErec) or transfers to the CT state at the interface with the donor with a rate constant (kLE,CTdis).
In this model, since we represent the active layer as an effective medium of mixed donor and acceptor phases, the diffusion of the lowest exciton from a pure donor or acceptor domain to a donor:acceptor interface is not effectively taken into account.
In what follows, we use the model to simultaneously reproduce a set of experimental results of a series of devices with different energy offsets between the acceptor and donor LUMOs.
For this study we estimate the parameters of the model following the steps detailed in Diagram S1 in Section 2 of the ESI.† We first establish the free energy and reorganisation energies of the LE to ground state transition that best reproduce the steady state emission spectra and the exciton lifetime measured using transient photoluminescence on the pristine acceptor film (in our case the acceptor has the lower band gap of donor and acceptor).
In this work we use the model to study devices based on poly[(2,6-(4,8-bis(5-(2-ethylhexyl)thiophene-2-yl)benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene))-alt-(5,5-(1′,3′-di-2-thienyl-5′,7′-bis(2-ethylhexyl)benzo[1′,2′-c:4′,5′-c′]dithiophene-4,8-dione))], (PBDB-T) polymer derivatives as donors and C8-ITIC as an acceptor.
Both the finding and the methodology presented herein is relevant to other type of bulk-heterojunction organic solar cells, and certainly to systems using oligomeric, low band gap acceptor molecules such as those used in most new high efficiency devices.39Fig.
2a displays the three donors: PBDB-T, the doubly fluorinated analogue PFBDB-T and the quadruply fluorinated P4FBDB-T, and the NFA acceptor, C8-ITIC, used in the study.12,40 As can be seen from the energy levels calculated from cyclic voltammetry measurements of thin films (ref.
The energy offset between the HOMOs of the material, which affects the hole transfer process from the donor to the acceptor (C8-ITIC), thus decreases from more than 0.3 eV for PBDB-T:C8-ITIC to almost zero in P4FBDB-T:C8-ITIC, whilst the energy offset between the LUMOs of the two components of the blend, which affects the electron transfer process remains higher than 0.4 eV in all blends.
This allows for selective excitation of the donor or the acceptor.
(a) chemical structure of the three donor polymers PBDB-T, PFBDB-T and P4FBDB-T and the acceptor C8-ITIC, (b) energy level (HOMO and LUMO) of the different donors and the acceptor, as estimated using cyclic voltammetry measurement according to results in ref.
It is important to note that similar reductions in those parameters have also been found when the HOMO–HOMO offset is reduced to close to zero in blends of P4FBDB-T with other acceptors such as ITIC and (21,40)bis[60]PCBM,12 and in many other donor–acceptor systems.41,42 The need to understand what limits the Jsc and FF of such low-offset blends is therefore of general importance.
First, since the acceptor (C8-ITIC) has a lower band gap than the polymers, we assume that the properties of the LE state are the same for the three blends and can be estimated by studying the pristine C8-ITIC films.
3 shows that upon fluorination of the donor, the electroluminescence spectrum blue shifts and the absorption edge (estimated using EQE spectra) gets sharper, whereas the PL spectrum remains fairly similar for the three blends and resembles the one from the pristine C8-ITIC (Fig.
By only considering a change in the free energy of the CT state (ΔG0CT), we can accurately reproduce the voltage losses upon fluorination of the donor of the three devices (Fig.
We first probe the dynamics of the charge carrier generation at early times using femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy in order to measure hole transfer kinetics from the NFA to polymer following the photoexcitation of the acceptor in films of each of the three polymer:NFA blends (Fig.
Previous studies have shown that energy transfer is likely to occur from donor to acceptor in these materials;18,45 to avoid this complication and simplify interpretation of the data, we choose a pump wavelength of 750 nm in order to selectively excite the acceptor species.
The smaller bandgap of the acceptor material relative to all donor species precludes energy transfer from acceptor to donor; therefore, any appearance of the donor ground state bleach (GSB) can be assigned unambiguously to hole transfer.46
Hole transfer kinetics and kinetic model for PBDB-T:C8-ITIC, PFBDB-T:C8-ITIC and P4FBDB-T:C8-ITIC, determined by monitoring the ground state bleach (GSB) of the donor.
The optical signal at 590 nm is representative of a region where the donor ground state strongly absorbs.
The evolution of the transient absorption signal following the photoexcitation of the acceptor of the three blends and the pristine C8-ITIC is presented in Fig.
650 nm which do not appear in the TA spectra of the pristine acceptor; consequently, we assign this feature to the GSB of the donor.
As well as this, a second feature located at ∼750 nm is also apparent and can be attributed to the GSB of the acceptor through comparison with the steady-state absorption.
The absorption of the donors and the acceptor in these blends (Fig.
S2, ESI†) show a significant overlap even in the region where the donor absorption peaks.
As a result, the transient absorption spectra of the three blends directly after the pulse (@ 0.2 ps) and after 4 ns both show a strong absorption feature in the region where the donors absorb (Fig.
Using a global analysis algorithm considering two species (corresponding to the GSB of the donor and the acceptor; further details in the ESI,† Section 9) we were able to selectively track the dynamics related to hole transfer by monitoring the GSB of the donor.
These show a slower rise than the TA data at 590 nm (where the donor strongly absorbs) due to the strong contribution of the acceptor absorption at that wavelength.
In the case of PBDB-T:C8-ITIC and PFBDB-T:C8-ITIC, a prompt rise in the donor GSB is observed, with a rise time on the order of a few picoseconds.
Using the model presented earlier, we can simulate the GSB following photoexcitation of the acceptor LE state by simulating the evolution of the charge and exciton densities in the device following a short period of photoexcitation of the acceptor, representing the laser pulse while the device is kept at open circuit.
Using the absorption and emission spectra of the pristine acceptor and the blends, as well as the voltage losses of the three devices under 1 sun conditions, we have estimated properties of the LE and CT state that best reproduce these experimental results, specifically the free energies and reorganisation energies for the excited state to ground transition.
All the parameters of the model for the three devices in the series studied have now been determined by reproducing the different experimental measurements introduced above, namely: (1) absorption and emission spectra; (2) voltage loss analysis; (3) GSB of the donor dynamics; (4) the lifetime and density of charge carriers at different light intensities.
We then applied the model to study a series of chemically similar bulk heterojunction devices with different energy offsets between the molecular orbitals of the donor and the acceptor.
For the systems studied here, the free energy difference between the LE and CT state, ΔGLE,CT, has been explicitly considered as a free parameter of the model and was not explicitly related to a change in the energy levels of the donor.
On the other hand, the impact of the fluorination of the donor on the free energy of the free charge carriers (i.e., the electric gap energy ECS) is implicitly calculated based on eqn (4).
The energy of the CS state can be estimated from the difference between the ionisation potential (IP) of the donor and the electron affinity (EA) of the acceptor.20 Interestingly using the IP and EA values reported by Karuthedath et al.20 for PBDB-T-2F (which is structurally like PFBDB-T) and ITIC (which has similar electronic properties as C8-ITIC) we find Ecs = IP(D) − EA(A) = 1.25 eV, which is close to the value used in the model for the PFBDB-T:C8-ITIC blend (Ecs = 1.28 eV).
From the model results, we find that both free energy offsets, ΔGLE,CT and ΔGCT,CS (here defined as ΔGCT,CS ≈ ΔG0CT − ECS), reduce with reducing offset energy between the HOMO of the donor and the acceptor.
This suggests that the difference in energy between the CS state and the CT state is affected by the energetics of the donor and acceptor molecules.36 ΔGLE,CT in the P4FBDB-T blend is reduced by 110 meV relative to the PBDB-T blend, whereas ΔGCT,CS is reduced by 140 meV.
This shows that in our system the difference in free energy between the CT and the CS states is as affected by the change in the HOMO (or the ionisation energy) of the donor as the difference in energy between the LE and CT state.
The impact of fluorinating the donor on the free energy offsets ΔGLE,CT and ΔGCT,CS is not yet clear.
It may be related to an electrostatic offset on the energy level profile near the donor:acceptor interface due to the quadrupole moments of the molecules.20 Alternatively, the reduced ΔGCT,CS gap may conceivably result from an increase in the binding energy of the CT state due to the hybridisation between the LE and CT state.12,57 We note that, whatever the underlying mechanism, the changes in free energy offset are not related in a trivial way to the polymer ionisation energy (as seen in Fig.
The reformation rate constant of the CT state (BCS,CTfor) is increased with decreased energy offset between the donor and the acceptor HOMO along the devices considered in this study.
These findings imply that BCS,CTfor is not solely limited by an encounter probability of the free charge carries, rather it appears to be related to the energetics at the donor and acceptor interface.
In our system, BCS,CTfor increases with fluorination of the donor (i.e., reduced offset between the HOMO of the donor and the acceptor), which suggests that a reduced ΔGCT,CS enhances the back transfer from the free charge carriers to the CT state.
In this study we have found that when changing the HOMO energy of the donor, the LE dissociation rate constant as well as the CT dissociation and reformation rate constant are affected.
These results challenge the common approach where changing the energy levels of the donor compared to the acceptor mainly impacts the transitions between the LE state and the CT state or the CT state recombination.9,14 If we assume that the dissociation and reformation rate constant are independent of the donor HOMO energy for the three devices considered (ESI,† Section 16), the lowest offset device would outperform the high offset device (14% PCE for the P4FBDB-T blend as compared to ∼10% PCE for the PBDB-T blend).
These results confirm that changing the energy offset of the donor strongly affects the CT dissociation and reformation rate constants.
In this work, we showed how through a unified model we can investigate the correlation between the reduced energy offset between the molecular orbitals of the donor and the acceptor and the rate of CT state dissociation and reformation.
